germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1946 : the first bikini dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1876 : konrad adenauer © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs france 's socialist party pushes to legalize cannabis as the country heads toward elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with author tom rachman listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : election of the first federal president © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1986 : great britain bans the cane dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch - leben in deutschland we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1942 : the diary of anne frank dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks dramatic finish three weeks to go and there 's still much to play for - and predict - in the bundesliga .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1957 : sinking of � pamir � sail training ship © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : mata hari executed © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1945 : liberation of dachau © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1986 : great britain bans the cane dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 - the cultural magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1988 : compensation for forced laborers dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1919 : the stab-in-the-back legend © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1919 : luxemburg and liebknecht killed © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live sondersendung we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1945 : liberation of dachau © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch - leben in deutschland we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live june 20-22 , 2011 deutsche welle global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week frank sinatra always did it his way listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature week three picks dw sports sizes up the week three match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature week three picks dw sports sizes up the week three match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks dramatic finish three weeks to go and there 's still much to play for - and predict - in the bundesliga .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 1 listen live stock exchange today in history 1920 : first league of nations meeting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live bundesliga predictions match day 17 picks the dw pundits are back from the alien abduction that kept them silent last week .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live sondersendung we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week opera ' porgy and bess ' shocked audiences when it debuted listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg - das reisemagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live june 20-22 , 2011 deutsche welle global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1911 : amundsen at the south pole © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live bundesliga predictions match day 17 picks the dw pundits are back from the alien abduction that kept them silent last week .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics 9798 dw-tv europe live popxport - the german music magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1492 : columbus reaches america © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1867 : " das kapital " © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress as south sudan independence nears , threat of death is constant listen live stock exchange today in history 1945 : the " rubble women " get started dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live stock exchange today in history 1833 : kaspar hauser dies © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1977 : judgment passed in stammheim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel passau videobox passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live faith matters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live stock exchange today in history 1965 : german lottery numbers picked live on television © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1859 : theory of evolution was published © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1965 : german lottery numbers picked live on television © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature round 2 picks it 's bundesliga round 2 .
the dw experts dust off the crystal ball for another set of forecasts .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel passau videobox passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1859 : theory of evolution was published © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1683 : first german settlement in america © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1964 : tunnel escape © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1859 : theory of evolution was published © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with theatre director irina brook listen live stock exchange today in history 1965 : german lottery numbers picked live on television © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1964 : tunnel escape © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german doctors perform world 's first double-arm transplant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 01.08.2008 german doctors perform world 's first double-arm transplant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : 40 doctors operated for 15 hours to perform the world 's first transplant of two full arms german doctors said friday they had succeeded in performing the world 's first transplant of two full arms on a farmer whose own limbs had been severed just below the shoulder in an accident six years ago . the male patient , 54 , was " doing well under the circumstances " after the 15-hour operation on july 25-26 , the clinic at the technical university in the southern city of munich said .
" the man required round-the-clock assistance - a condition he wanted to change as quickly as possible , " the hospital said in a statement .
the head of the transplant team , christoph hoehnke , told reporters he was deeply moved as the man 's wife went to his bedside after the operation and instinctively reached for his hands .
" they look just like they used to , " she said , according to hoehnke .
it may , however , take up to two years for the man to regain " feeling in his fingertips , " the hospital spokeswoman said .
complex procedure 40 medics took part in the complicated surgical procedure at the university 's rechts der isar clinic .
the facility has a decades-old unit for microsurgery and replantation surgery with a speciality in interdisciplinary operations it said was essential for a procedure of this kind .
professor hans-guenther machens had prepared the transplant since he became the clinic 's director in december .
the hospital said its main concern was how to suppress the man 's immune system so it would not reject the new limbs .
another key challenge was finding a donor who matched the patient 's sex , age , skin colour , size and blood type .
in 2005 , french doctors performed the world 's first partial face transplant on a 38-year old woman , who had her nose , cheeks , mouth , lips and chin replaced by donor tissue after they were torn off by her dog . dw staff -lrb- tt -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de faded star attempts comeback with public plastic surgery brigitte nielsen , best known for a few movies in the 80s and her marriage to sylvester stallone , is taking reality tv to new heights , or depths , in germany .
she 's undergoing plastic surgery while the cameras are rolling .
-lrb- 07.07.2008 -rrb- doctors , politicians call for ban on cosmetic surgery for kids concerned members of a pediatrics organization echo politicians ' demands for a ban on beauty operations for children and teenagers in germany .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- gender warrior wins case against surgeon a 48-year-old woman who was forced to live much of her life as a man won a damages lawsuit in a 30-year-old medical case that promised to set a precedent for intergender activists .
-lrb- 06.02.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german doctors perform world 's first double-arm transplant -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 01.08.2008 german doctors perform world 's first double-arm transplant großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : 40 doctors operated for 15 hours to perform the world 's first transplant of two full arms german doctors said friday they had succeeded in performing the world 's first transplant of two full arms on a farmer whose own limbs had been severed just below the shoulder in an accident six years ago . the male patient , 54 , was " doing well under the circumstances " after the 15-hour operation on july 25-26 , the clinic at the technical university in the southern city of munich said .
" the man required round-the-clock assistance - a condition he wanted to change as quickly as possible , " the hospital said in a statement .
the head of the transplant team , christoph hoehnke , told reporters he was deeply moved as the man 's wife went to his bedside after the operation and instinctively reached for his hands .
" they look just like they used to , " she said , according to hoehnke .
it may , however , take up to two years for the man to regain " feeling in his fingertips , " the hospital spokeswoman said .
complex procedure 40 medics took part in the complicated surgical procedure at the university 's rechts der isar clinic .
the facility has a decades-old unit for microsurgery and replantation surgery with a speciality in interdisciplinary operations it said was essential for a procedure of this kind .
professor hans-guenther machens had prepared the transplant since he became the clinic 's director in december .
the hospital said its main concern was how to suppress the man 's immune system so it would not reject the new limbs .
another key challenge was finding a donor who matched the patient 's sex , age , skin colour , size and blood type .
in 2005 , french doctors performed the world 's first partial face transplant on a 38-year old woman , who had her nose , cheeks , mouth , lips and chin replaced by donor tissue after they were torn off by her dog . dw staff -lrb- tt -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de faded star attempts comeback with public plastic surgery brigitte nielsen , best known for a few movies in the 80s and her marriage to sylvester stallone , is taking reality tv to new heights , or depths , in germany .
she 's undergoing plastic surgery while the cameras are rolling .
-lrb- 07.07.2008 -rrb- doctors , politicians call for ban on cosmetic surgery for kids concerned members of a pediatrics organization echo politicians ' demands for a ban on beauty operations for children and teenagers in germany .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- gender warrior wins case against surgeon a 48-year-old woman who was forced to live much of her life as a man won a damages lawsuit in a 30-year-old medical case that promised to set a precedent for intergender activists .
-lrb- 06.02.2008 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet food , corruption , cradles and hamsters listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics 9800 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live bundesliga predictions spot on dw pundits hope to get a little closer to perfection with their match day 19 picks .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics 9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one – to-one with organist , conductor and composer neithard bethke listen live stock exchange today in history 1972 : heinrich böll awarded nobel prize for literature © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1922 : stalin � s rise to power © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 41 : caligula murdered © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1861 : the largest blacksmith 's hammer at krupp © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1936 : thomas mann expatriated © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week finance and flowers : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : zeppelin explodes dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1794 : robespierre is executed dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live june 20-22 , 2011 deutsche welle global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live photos global media forum images from the 2008 global media forum in bonn . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live june 20-22 , 2011 deutsche welle global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1957 : first nuclear chain reaction in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1930 : " the blue angel " premieres © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1992 : chains of light against racism © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1962 : premier of jules et jim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : minister brought down due to the greenpeace affair © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : zeppelin explodes dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1978 : first test-tube baby dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1517 : reformation day © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live stock exchange today in history 1957 : sinking of � pamir � sail training ship © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1982 : argentinians land in the falklands © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live stock exchange today in history 1992 : chains of light against racism © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1962 : premier of jules et jim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week finance and flowers : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week finance , flowers , and fame listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : zeppelin explodes dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1997 : jan ullrich wins the tour de france dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet triumphant greens , banning cars and measuring a nitrogen footprint listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week international peace day - september 21 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week four picks dw sports sizes up the week four match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live bundesliga predictions spot on dw pundits hope to get a little closer to perfection with their match day 19 picks .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1818 : " stille nacht , heilige nacht " � silent night , holy © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round six picks dw sports sizes up the round six match-ups in the bundesliga with a dose of cautious optimism .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1795 : the meter is laid down in paris dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1887 : presentation of the gramophone © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : " guernica " exhibited for the first time dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live stock exchange today in history 1945 : nuremberg trials begin © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1987 : uwe barschel found dead © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live stock exchange today in history 1867 : " das kapital " © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : uranium nuclear fission © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week football and finance : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1798 : napoleon sets off for egypt dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds patricia kopatchinskaja – violinist listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1924 : first olympic winter games © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top german 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1942 : the evening before the stalingrad encirclement © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1492 : columbus reaches america © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1867 : " das kapital " © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the road to success -jutta kleinschmidt volkswagen - 12 companies and large ambitions looking ahead - transportation in tomorrow 's world 125 years of the car - the history of motoring stock exchange today in history 1788 : colonial australia © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1789 : the storming of the bastille dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.10.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live june 20-22 , 2011 deutsche welle global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds patricia kopatchinskaja – violinist listen live photos global media forum images from the 2008 global media forum in bonn . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress broadcasting independent news to sealed-off north korea listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week chuck berry - born on oct .
18,1926 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week bert kaempfert - born on october 16 , 1923 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : " live aid " concert dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1924 : first olympic winter games © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1795 : the meter is laid down in paris dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
panini albums women 's soccer gets its first panini albums , forty years after the sticker-collecting hobby began .
watch the video education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : uranium nuclear fission © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds patricia kopatchinskaja – violinist listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1517 : reformation day © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week brain drain , jobs and headscarves listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape - the health show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund - das gesundheitsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress broadcasting independent news to sealed-off north korea listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions bundesliga picks dw 's experts consult the football stars in a bid to predict the bundesliga match day eight results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour summer music days in hitzacker listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round six picks dw sports sizes up the round six match-ups in the bundesliga with a dose of cautious optimism .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live bundesliga predictions match day 17 picks the dw pundits are back from the alien abduction that kept them silent last week .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the voodoo we do dw 's experts resort to a mixture of voodoo and chicken bones to predict week eleven 's results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg players bremen and peru 's claudio pizarro talks on becoming the top foreign scorer in bundesliga history .
watch the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- 9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : honecker resigns © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1875 : albert schweitzer © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds gregor zubicky – artistic manager of the swedish chamber orchestra listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1912 : tragic end to scott expedition © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live stock exchange today in history 1906 : first photoelectric fax transmission © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1953 : the " doctors � plot " rattles moscow © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live stock exchange today in history 1867 : " das kapital " © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live stock exchange today in history 1901 : telegraphy across the atlantic ocean © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history : © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1842 : founding of the vienna philharmonic orchestra © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live stock exchange today in history 1867 : " das kapital " © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1945 : berlin surrenders © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : uk prisoners to get the vote postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live stock exchange today in history 1967 : thalidomide bill of indictment © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds gregor zubicky – artistic manager of the swedish chamber orchestra listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour dresden musikfestival 01 listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet humans relations with animals listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live june 20-22 , 2011 deutsche welle global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live june 20-22 , 2011 deutsche welle global media forum © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : ufa established © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1928 : russian art treasures auctioned in berlin © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : first frankfurt book fair © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1953 : deutsche welle is launched dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1992 : safe bank notes © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour halle 1 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions hands down dw pundits hope a palm and 50 cents are all it takes to get the scores right on match day 14 .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg cantona 's revolution former footballer , now actor eric cantona wants to start a revolution targetting the banks .
listen to the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1955 : austrian neutrality © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds maike mia höhne - curator berlinale shorts listen live stock exchange today in history 1871 : foundation of the german reich © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1912 : german library in leipzig © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : herrhausen murdered © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de aviation -pipe- 01.08.2008 pay hike puts end to strike at lufthansa großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lufthansa schedules probably wo n't be back to normal until mid-august lufthansa officials said the airline would need until mid-august to normalize its schedule after reaching a deal to end a strike by the verdi services union .
the five-day strike kept hundreds of planes from taking off . lufthansa said in addition to a one-time payment , it would increase ground personnel 's pay by 5.1 percent retroactively to july 1 .
the deal , which lasts 21 months , also calls for an additional 2.3 percent pay hike in july 2009 . the airline had earlier said it was cutting 128 flights from its regular schedule friday , as it had done on thursday , in response to the strike by ground and cabin staff .
verdi said the strike would end with the early shift on saturday . lufthansa said it be two weeks until it is able to return to a normal flight schedule as the ground crew strikes led to a backup in plane maintenance .
over the next four days 90 percent of european flights would take off , the airline said on its web site .
the company estimated that the agreement would cost the airline 100 million euros -lrb- $ 156 million -rrb- in its second year . not all expectations met bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one expert said the deal was fair to both the union and the airline " it is clearly not a painless outcome for either side , " lufthansa human resources chief stefan lauer told reporters at press conference in frankfurt .
" -lrb- but -rrb- the fact that we were able to resolve the wage conflict internally sends an important message to our passengers and also to our staff and about germany as a place to do business . " the strike cost lufthansa tens of millions of euros , lauer said , according to germany 's der spiegel newsmagazine . verdi 's head negotiator , erhard ott , said the " results will not meet all expectations . "
he also said the trade union was " ready to leave the table several times " during negotiations . a trade union expert at the german institute for economic research , hagen lesch , said he found the compromise to be fair to both side . " if you include the one-off payment , the wage agreement is higher than that in many manufacturing sectors , " he told der spiegel 's online edition .
" compared to other service-sector deals , verdi is in the upper tier with this one . " official talks broke down three weeks ago , and verdi balloted its members , securing more than 90-percent support for an unlimited strike that began monday . verdi had demanded 9.8 percent more pay over a 12-month contract for 50,000 workers .
lufthansa 's had earlier offered 6.7 percent over a 21-month contract , plus a one-off payment . more german strikes to come ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a second flight attendant union wants a bigger raise when it negotiates in 2009 a second union representing flight attendants , the ufo , criticized friday 's deal as being too low . " we want a considerably larger increase for flight attendants , " ufo negotiations leader joachim mueller told reporters . ufo , whose current contract with lufthansa runs until the end of 2008 , has demanded a 15 percent pay raise - more than double the lufthansa-verdi compromise . the wsi economic research institute , which is traditionally close germany 's trade unions , said there was a growing willingness among german employees to lay down their work . " wage talks have become much tougher " in a country known for relatively harmonious relations between management and labor , wsi expert heiner dribbusch told the afp news agency .
" employees are more ready to mobilize now . " the federal labor office , which keeps track of industrial action , said there had been more strike days in germany since 2006 than in the decade before . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de lufthansa strike displays german thoroughness , expert says dw-world.de spoke with aviation expert cord schellenberg about the costs and effects of the strike at lufthansa , german organization and the demands on the table .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- lufthansa cuts additional flights as strike continues lufthansa cancelled 10 percent of its scheduled flights thursday , july 31 as a pay strike by ground and cabin staff at airports across germany went into its fourth day .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- berlin warns against economic effects of lufthansa strike some 4,000 ground personnel joined at lufthansa joined the second day of wage strikes on tuesday , july 29 .
the german airline cancelled 70 flights amid concerns that the strikes could damage the economy .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic lufthansa and trade union reach agreement over pay 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour schwetzingen festival -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live stock exchange today in history 1988 : steffi graf wins wimbledon dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box in-box is no longer broadcast .
instead , you can listen to sound-scape 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour kent nagano / bavarian state orchestra listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features new german films aim to shed light on scientology bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise -pipe- press releases -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts press releases -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle : internet censorship in china comes as no surprise großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : internet café in china - limited access .
the limitations in the main press center have fully illustrated how beijing views freedom of the press and freedom of opinion . for deutsche welle , the chinese government ’ s limitations to internet access in the main press center at the olympic games in beijing “ comes as no surprise at all . ”
ansgar burghof , head of general management states : “ the chinese officials are currently demonstrating to the collected members of the world press , what deutsche welle has seen time and time again over the years : beijing heavily restricts the flow of information for people in the country . ”
because of the increased media presence and the direct dismay from reporters , “ it has fully illustrated what the chinese leaders think about freedom of press and freedom of opinion and how they react to the criticism of this restriction of basic freedoms , ” says burghof .
deutsche welle has been affected on multiple occasions : it has been demonstrated that its website – especially in chinese – has been blocked .
the officials in beijing have also refused deutsche welle ’ s application for a broadcasting license in china .
it is now only viewable via partners that broadcast individual programs .
“ dw-tv is currently available in the official cable network at the olympic village and the press center – we are monitoring to what extent this is affected , ” says burghof .
for internet users in china , deutsche welle has created solutions so that at least some of the online content is accessible – like links on other websites , via newsletters and special servers .
dw-radio is also available vie shortwave .
“ as germany ’ s international broadcaster , we have a mission to fulfill – despite any hurdles .
and that goes for china as well , ” says burghof .
“ just like in the past , we will use all possible channels and continue to persevere . ”
july 31 , 2008 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live june 20-22 , 2011 deutsche welle global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media future now innovations shaping tomorrow the new science and technology series from deutsche welle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1915 : airship bombs london © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1936 : thomas mann expatriated © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live global 3000 - the globalization program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour schwetzingen festival -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds maike mia höhne - curator berlinale shorts listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 01.08.2008 opinion : olmert 's resignation unlikely to improve peace process großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : israel 's prime minister olmert made many promises , but did n't keep many of them .
he could barely even set a course for the middle east peace process .
dw 's bettina marx said his successors do n't offer much hope , either . ehud olmert has called it quits .
when his kadima party votes for a new leader in six weeks , he will clean out his office and make way for his successor .
finally , is the sentiment felt by most israelis , who had to watch their prime minister stumble from one affair of corruption to another for years .
ehud olmert was head of government for only 31 months .
he took over in the difficult times of his predecessor ariel sharon , who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage in january 2006 and fell into a coma .
olmert had a disappointing performance in the subsequent election .
the hoped-for outstanding election win for him and the still very young kadima party , which sharon had recently founded , did not materialize .
but olmert did not contest this .
he promised to finally give israel definite borders and to make peace with the palestinians and the neighboring arabic countries .
but he could not adhere to any of this - on the contrary .
he had barely come into office when he led a war against the hezbollah and lebanon , which indeed from the beginning registered much agreement among the population from the beginning , but whose disappointing and casualty-high exit then almost cost him his position in office .
no peace with palestinians there were also no advances whatsoever in the talks with the palestinians .
indeed olmert regularly met mahmud abbas , president of the palestinian national authority , for so-called peace talks .
but while he dealt with him , his government simultaneously agreed upon the building of new settlements and the destruction of old ones and asked defense secretary ehud barak for stronger action against the palestinians in gaza .
against this background it almost appeared to be a mockery when olmert hinted at signing an agreement with abbas before retiring as prime minister , because neither olmert nor abbas can rely on the majority of their voters .
both no longer have a mandate to make decisions with far-reaching effects .
dubious successors but even after olmert leaves office , the situation in the middle east will not be much better .
of the four possible successors at the top of the kadima party , two have excelled as downright troublemakers in the past .
transportation minister shaul mofaz , chief of staff during the outbreak of the intifada , who regularly defies the orders of the political leadership and was once described by an israeli journalist as a “ man without any attributes , ” campaigned for the rigorous suppression of the palestinian insurgence .
minister of interior security avi dichter , who was previously the chief of the domestic intelligence service shabak , is considered the actual driving force behind the targeted killings with which israel took its political adversaries in the palestinian regions out of the way .
interior minister meir shitrit , who up to now stands out mainly through his unconditional loyalty to olmert , essentially has no hope of becoming his successor because he lacks the necessary power base in his party .
in the meantime , secretary of state tzipi livni , currently the most promising candidate , is indeed considered as the dove in her party .
but she too holds a rigid and demanding position against the palestinians .
none of the four candidates to succeed olmert is stepping forward with an original idea , none have made a creative suggestion regarding how the conflict with the palestinians can be solved peacefully .
none have displayed open-mindedness or the readiness to make compromises .
olmert 's announced retirement could indeed make things easier , but there is no reason to hope for advances in the peace process .
bettina marx is dw 's israel expert and formerly worked as a correspondent in tel aviv . -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iran preaches friendship with us , israel after inconclusive talks the deputy to iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad said that iran was now a friend of the us and israel , iranian news agencies reported sunday , july 20 - a day after nuclear negotiations with the west came to nothing .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- iran high on the agenda for olmert 's talks with merkel israeli prime minister ehud olmert plans to use a three-day visit to germany to push for tougher international measures to force iran to halt a nuclear program he has called a threat to israel 's existence .
-lrb- 11.02.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think improvement in the peace process is unlikely ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1631 : first labour exchange dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany calls for end of restrictions on foreign media in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : foreign journalists are up against some tight restrictions in china german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier phoned his chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday , aug .
1 , to call for restrictions on foreign journalists covering the beijing olympics to be lifted . in particular , steinmeier raised the issue of restrictions on internet access for journalists , asking yang for clarification . the german foreign minister urged the chinese government to reconsider the measures , according to a statement from the foreign ministry in berlin . yang had responded that china intended to hold the games in the spirit of the olympic movement , the statement said . the chinese foreign minister also said that he would look into the problems at the " german house " in beijing , which has not been receiving current editions of the major german newspapers . the two foreign ministers also discussed their joint efforts with regard to iran 's nuclear program . dpa news agency -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german foreign minister says olympics will " open up " china germany 's foreign minister said sunday , july 27 , that the upcoming olympic games would herald a major " opening up " of chinese society and urged beijing to do more to ensure the rights of its minorities .
-lrb- 27.07.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 01.08.2008 shopaholics are addicted to attention , german researchers find großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : as long as you put your purchases to use , it 's all good german researchers believe they 've found the first effective treatment for shopping addicts .
the key is to increase self-esteem and end the need for adoration of store clerks , the psychologists say . one out of 10 consumers in wealthy western countries are addicted to shopping to some extent , according to german researchers .
oniomania , the scientific term for " pathological addiction to shopping , " was first recognized a century ago by the leipzig psychiatrist emil kraeplin , who wrote a scientific treatise about people in large cities who simply could not resist the urge to buy pretty things which made them feel better - even if they stashed away the items at home unopened , never to be used . but the great depression , world war ii and the ensuing cold war meant that shopping addiction was largely restricted to britain and america - where it was largely dismissed as a cliche or else as a " women 's problem . "
but the fall of communism and the rise of prosperity in eastern europe , china and other nations has turned shopping addiction into a pathological disorder of global dimensions , according to martina de zwaan , head of the department of psychotherapy at erlangen university hospital in germany .
a growing global problem bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for many shopaholics , the problem strains their bank accounts " in view of the growing incidence not only in germany but around the world , shopping addiction must be taken seriously by health professionals and by the health-insurance industry , " says de zwaan , who heads the group of researchers who came up with the revolutionary new course of therapy .
together with researchers from the university of north dakota in the us , the erlangen psychiatrists conducted a four-year study of 51 women and nine men between the ages of 20 and 61 who were confirmed shopping addicts in need of urgent help .
in all cases , the subjects felt an overpowering urge to go out and buy things , regardless of whether they actually needed or even wanted the things they bought .
in most cases , their shopping obsession put onerous stress on partners and families , financially and also psychologically .
in some cases , entire rooms of homes were unusable due to booty from shopping binge forays .
shopaholics often have other disorders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shopaholics can be found at all income levels the erlangen researchers found that shopping addiction transcends all social and income levels .
shopping addicts also generally tend to have low self-esteem problems along with drinking problems and eating disorders and other impulsive-consumption problems .
like over-eating and drinking too much , shopping makes these addicts feel better in the short term - before the hangover effects hit them later on .
shopping addiction is more prevalent among women , but is also common among men .
" women go out and buy pretty things for themselves or for others such as clothes , shoes , jewelry , food and things for the home , " says astrid mueller , who wrote the study findings .
" men go out and buy their own version of ' pretty things ' which tend to be things for the car or sporting equipment , power tools and household gadgets , most of which are packed away in a storage closet or in the garden shed and never used . "
some of the subjects in the study reported that the urge to shop comes on them on a regular basis , like binge drinking .
" for several days they will be ' good ' and not go out shopping , " says mueller .
" then one day they ca n't resist any longer and go out and buy things in a shopping binge . "
collector or addict ?
they derive pleasure from being in the shops among all the pretty things and interacting with sales people who treat them nicely all the way up to the cash register - where the feelings of guilt start creeping in .
" shopping addicts rarely enjoy the things they buy because they feel so guilty afterwards , " mueller says .
" they ca n't bear to look at the things they have bought on impulse .
often , they have bought several of the same thing , say , the same shoes but in several different colors .
they feel so guilty afterwards that they hoard the things away in their boxes and try to forget about them . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : that 's quite the beer mug collection some people who call themselves " avid collectors " are in fact shopping addicts .
" people who go out and buy everything in sight and then hide it all away in a closet are not ' collectors ' , " says mueller .
" they are ' hoarders ' who are trying to cover up for their shopping addiction .
collectors place things on exhibit .
hoarders hide things away for some future eventuality which , for shopping addicts , never comes .
their hoard is never brought out of hiding . "
the tragedy for shopping addicts is that their pretty prized purchases will never be removed from those boxes .
a new treatment approach until now , the only therapy involved using anti-depressant medication .
even then , over 60 percent of shopping addicts reverted back to binge buying .
the erlangen researchers say their new therapy is based on improving the psychological self-esteem of the patient .
their breakthrough came in understanding that a key factor in shopping addiction is the self-esteem boost that addicts get from interaction with store clerks .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : store clerks are just doing their jobs " we discovered that shopping addicts get a real kick out of the interaction they have with store personnel .
their fragile egos are given a tremendous boost by sales people who fawn over them and smile and treat them like royalty , " says mueller .
" their conscious minds know , of course , that these people only want to make a commission on a sale .
but their subconscious minds enjoy being treated as a special somebody . "
shopping addiction therapy sessions , which will start this fall at erlangen university hospital , focus on making shopping addicts aware of their condition and the motives behind their shopping urges .
that is a step towards retraining their minds to find other ways to boost their self-esteem .
" the first step , of course , is for the shopping addict to admit that he or she has a problem and to decide that it is time to do something about that problem , " she says .
" they have to admit it to their friends and families who , generally , are willing to give them the love and support they need to beat their addiction . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german fan plans world 's first rolling stones museum a diehard rolling stones in germany fan is planning to create a museum in his home town , which will showcase a vast collection of memorabilia from the fathers of rock and roll .
it 'll be a worldwide first , he says .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- collector 's passion crowds him out of his home a lawyer investigating the estate of a deceased man discovered a weapons arsenal in his apartment .
the late collector 's stockpiling instinct was so intense he drove himself out of his own home .
-lrb- 03.04.2008 -rrb- feedback are you a shopaholic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1984 : kohl and mitterrand in verdun © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1984 : kohl and mitterrand in verdun © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1871 : foundation of the german reich © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german retail sales fall as consumers stay home -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 01.08.2008 german retail sales fall as consumers stay home großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : retail stores saw sales drop in june german retail sales fell by 1.4 percent in june from the previous month , provisional figures released by the national statistics office showed .
the statistics confirmed a slump in household consumption . in may , the volatile indicator had rebounded slightly , but falling consumer confidence suggests that the biggest european economy will continue to see weaker activity in its shopping districts , according to the data released friday , aug .
1 , by the german federal statistics office . the figure was calculated from seasonally corrected data provided by seven of germany 's 16 states .
it came after a survey by the gfk institute found that consumer confidence has hit a five-year low as oil-fuelled inflation wiped out gains in employment and wages . " turnover in retail trade in germany in june 2008 was in nominal terms 1.2 percent and in real terms 3.9 percent smaller than that in the corresponding month of the previous year , " the statistics office said .
robbed of purchasing power at unicredit markets , analyst andreas rees said " german consumers are now increasingly sending out the sos signal . " commerzbank counterpart matthias rubisch added that " soaring energy and food prices are robbing households of their purchasing power . " a food retailing sub index fell by 7.0 percent from june 2007 , statistics showed , a sign that german consumers were curbing even essential spending . while recent declines in oil prices might continue , " this does not mean that john q. public will go on a shopping spree in the months to come , " rees said . the retail chain hertie said thursday that it was filing for insolvency and rubisch commented that for private consumption in general , " the outlook remains bleak . " with gas and electricity prices set to rise sharply in the coming months , " the german consumer simply can not be a match for declining export and investment activity - in no way , " rees said . other europeans buying more , saving less meanwhile in the 15-member euro zone growth of disposable income slowed in the first quarter of 2008 , the european central bank said friday . disposable income grew by 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2008 , down from 4.6 percent in the last quarter of 2007 , an ecb statement said . unlike in germany , consumption growth in the euro zone rose to 4.1 percent from 3.8 percent , and the savings rate fell sharply to minus 2.8 percent from 12.6 percent , the ecb said . but the central bank added that the figures could have changed in recent months after euro zone inflation hit a record 4.1 percent last month and plunging consumer confidence put a damper on spending . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german companies slow hiring spree as economy cools german employers have begun to curb hiring in the face of growing economic uncertainty , as unemployment figures released on thursday show .
-lrb- 31.07.2008 -rrb- european economic confidence posts biggest fall since 9/11 european economic confidence recorded its biggest fall since the sept .
11 , 2001 terrorist attacks on the united states , according to a key survey released wednesday .
concerns about the economic outlook are setting in .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- inflation fears push german consumer sentiment to 5-year low fears of a looming recession have further worried germans , with the monthly gfk index of consumer sentiment dipping monday , july 28 to its lowest level since june 2003 .
-lrb- 28.07.2008 -rrb- feedback have your shopping habits changed over the last few months ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1946 : penicillin production in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour schwetzingen festival -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de third reich -pipe- 01.08.2008 german industrialist family breaks silence over nazi ties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nazi prisoners were forced to work for the quandt family during wwii almost nine months after a german television documentary highlighted the exploitation of nazi prisoners that helped the quandt family make its fortune , a family member spoke up about the issue . the quandt family , which owns close to 47 percent of the shares in german car maker bmw , had been maintaining a wall of silence following the broadcast of a film that put the spotlight on the stories of former nazi prisoners who were forced to work in a battery factory owned by magnate guenther quandt -lrb- 1881-1954 -rrb- .
the workers recounted beatings , mistreatment and even deaths at the factory in the film which premiered at the hamburg film festival last year .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stefan quandt hoping to repair the family 's damaged reputation , stefan quandt used the recent award ceremony for the " herbert quandt media prize " to undercut the documentary 's integrity , german daily faz reported on thursday , july 31 .
" the allegation that the family 's assets can be traced back to the time of the third reich defrauds fifty years of entrepreneurial success on the part of my great grandfather emil and my grandfather guenther quandt before the year 1933 , " he was quoted as saying .
integrity of media prize questioned the documentary 's broadcast has tarnished the quandt moniker to such an extent that three prominent members of the board of trustees responsible for awarding the prize resigned their posts .
mathias müller , editor in chief of der spiegel , gabriele fischer , editor in chief of brand eins and christoph keese , former editor in chief of welt am sonntag and current ceo of public affairs for the publishing giant axel springer have called for the cancellation of the prize until the family 's role during the time of the nazis was clarified .
but the quandt family is determined to see the media prize live on .
after the documentary was aired , the family hired historian joachim scholtyseck to spend three years exploring the family history .
scholtyseck 's findings may lead the quandts - one of germany 's last corporate dynasties that has not dealt with its past - to finally face the skeletons in the family closet .
nazi ties misjudged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : through her re-marriage to joseph goebbels , magda quandt directly linked the family to the nazi regime in addition to being one of the most important german arms producers during world war ii , the quandt family also had a private connection to the nazis .
guenther quandt 's first wife magda ritschel married joseph goebbels , hitler 's future propaganda minister , two years after divorcing guenther .
their first son harald then lived with her and goebbels .
stefan quandt , however , found fault with the documentary for leaving out a very important aspect of the quandt-goebbels connection : the fact that guenther quandt took legal action against goebbels in 1934 in order to gain custody over harald .
" the court did not accept the claim against the influential minister goebbels and the lawyer representing my grandfather was removed from his leading position in the lawyers ' association , " he said .
he also said that his family members were only human and that the circumstances of their time were largely beyond their control .
" some people followed national socialism from conviction , " he said .
" some agreed to small or large compromises .
others were forced .
in a world of fear and instability , it was n't any different for guenther and herbert quandt as entrepreneurs . " dw staff -lrb- ls -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a master 's degree in relating past horrors to generations today as the holocaust recedes further into history and eyewitnesses die , a college in berlin has designed a graduate degree course to teach students how to communicate the nazi genocide to today 's public .
-lrb- 22.10.2007 -rrb- bmw dynasty wants to uncover nazi ties how did the quandt family , major shareholders in bmw , amass their fortune ?
a recent tv documentary revealed that exploitation of nazi prisoners made the family what it is .
now they 're ready to uncover the past .
-lrb- 09.10.2007 -rrb- report : german prosecutors asked to trace nazi atrocities unit german war-crimes prosecutors have been asked to trace survivors of a 7,500-man nazi military unit accused of some of the worst atrocities of the world war ii in poland , the german news magazine der spiegel said .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany on monday marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- feedback what should the quandt family do ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour summer music days in hitzacker listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics 9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de press freedom -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle probes alleged censorship of tv in china großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-tv 's program was interrupted for 10 minutes as china lifted restrictions on some web sites ahead of the olympics , new concerns over media access have arisen in beijing .
deutsche welle is looking into allegations that its tv program was jammed in china . deutsche welle officials said on friday , aug .
1 , that they were investigating whether dw-tv 's broadcast was jammed in china because of a documentary film that takes a critical look at doping in the country . dw-tv , which can be seen in the olympic village and the press center via an official cable provider , was apparently frozen in mid-broadcast for 10 minutes while the film aired on july 29 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw-world.de 's chinese web site is once again accessible in china dw staff in china meanwhile confirmed that dw-world.de 's chinese version was accessible in large cities throughout the country , but added that the site 's loading time often took much longer than usual .
deutsche welle 's other language services were unblocked earlier this week . many other sites , however , were still being censored , including those linked to chinese dissidents , the outlawed falun gong movement , the tibetan government-in-exile and ones with information on the 1989 massacre at tiananmen square . unlike journalists at the olympic media center , internet access for chinese citizens will remain tightly controlled by government officials . slow paper delivery in addition to restrictions placed on internet sites , german publishers have reported difficulty delivering newspapers to the deutsches haus - a meeting place for the german delegation during the olympics at a beijing hotel , media reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it takes two to three days for german newspapers to reach beijing 's streets , the dosb said publishers of the daily frankfurter allgemeine zeitung wrote that talks over the past few months to ensure the direct and timely delivery of papers to the olympic village had failed .
chinese officials stated they needed at least three days to censor publications before they could be delivered , according to the paper . allowing the german press to be censored before reaching readers was " completely inacceptable , " the president of the german parliament , norbert lammert , wrote to the german olympic sports association -lrb- dosb -rrb- , according to media reports on friday . in his letter , lammert called the general chinese practice of limiting media access a " shameful , dark side of the games that we can not change . "
he added that a deutsches haus , where the 750-person strong german olympic delegation and its guests often congregate during the games , does not deserve its name if it does not respect the worldwide freedom of expression . the dosb has entered talks with chinese officials to permit the speedy release of german print media , spokesman gerd graus said , according to the protestant church 's epd news agency . internet open to journalists only the censorship of german print media comes even as international olympic committee officials and the chinese olympic organizing committee -lrb- bocog -rrb- on friday said journalists at the olympic media center would be granted unfettered access to the internet during the games . " the issue has been solved , " ioc vice-president gunilla lindberg said .
" the ioc coordination commission and bocog met last night and agreed .
internet use will be just like in any olympics . " the previously barred web sites of amnesty international , reporters without borders , afp news agency reported .
a reporter for german public broadcaster zdf said on friday that although amnesty 's web site was accessible , information concerning human rights in china was not . access follows media pressure the easing of some restrictions came after a week of controversy and china 's breach of a pledge to allow foreign reporters covering the games complete access to the internet . the media should be seeing a noticeable difference in accessibility to web sites that they need to report on the olympic games , the ioc said friday in an online statement . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many web sites would remain blocked during the olympics , chinese officials said " we put a team together in the ioc to work with bocog to begin to open up sites which we believe are absolutely necessary to comply with non-censored reporting of the games , " ioc press commission chairman kevan gosper told reuters . gosper , however , added that some sites would continue to be censored . " there will be sites blocked that have to do with pornography or where , in the opinion of the national government , sites are subversive or against national interest , and that 's normal in most countries in the world , " he said . ioc spokeswoman giselle davies on friday welcomed china 's decision to lift restrictions on some of the sites deemed sensitive , such as the one for amnesty , a leading human rights group . " it 's a good thing , " she said . bocog spokesman sun weide declined to comment on whether any specific web sites had been blocked or whether restrictions on others had been lifted . " some sites are blocked under chinese law , but i do not have further information , " he said .
" internet access in china is sufficient and is open .
i think it is as open as in any other country in the world . " dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de china breaks promise of unfettered internet at olympics china has sparked criticism by blocking access to controversial web sites ahead of the olympic games , despite promises to provide open access .
the ioc said it knew some sites would not be accessible during the games .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- german journalists demand free access during beijing olympics germany 's journalist union and the german chapter of reporters without borders have called on china to stick to its own rules regarding press freedom during the olympic games , which are due to open in beijing next month .
-lrb- 12.07.2008 -rrb- olympic sponsors between a rock and a hard place the beijing olympics sponsors need to find ways to prevent international outrage over the situation in tibet from morphing into a backlash against them .
dw-world.de spoke to one of their advisors about what can be done .
-lrb- 25.04.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic china lifts some restrictions on internet access china hopes for positive image german expectations for the olympics feedback should more be done to make china keep is promise of open internet access during the olympics ?
send us your opinion and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round six picks dw sports sizes up the round six match-ups in the bundesliga with a dose of cautious optimism .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de formula one -pipe- 01.08.2008 germany 's rosberg hopeful of late-season formula one wins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rosberg has n't had much to smile about lately nico rosberg started the 2008 formula one season by scoring an unexpected third-place finish in melbourne .
but since then , things have stalled for the 23-year-old german , who has gone pointless in his last five races . and the bad news kept coming this week for rosberg , who drives for williams-toyota .
any secret hopes rosberg may have harbored of joining mclaren-mercedes in 2009 have been dashed by the news that the team has extended heikki kovalainen 's contract for another year .
the son of former world champion keke rosberg remains confident , however , that he can turn things around at his current team , sooner rather than later .
" otherwise i would not have signed up for 2009 , " rosberg told dpa news agency in budapest ahead of this weekend 's hungarian grand prix .
" yes , we have fallen behind .
red bull , toyota and renault , who were able to compare ourselves with , are now simply faster . "
no plans to switch teams rosberg does n't believe the situation will necessarily change at the hungaroring but sees the opportunity to gain points in the upcoming races .
" everyone at williams is working really hard and we also have circuits coming up that favor us , " said rosberg .
" budapest , valencia and perhaps also singapore .
i think that we will run a couple of good races during the rest of the season . "
although rosberg apparently has an exit clause in his contract that allows him to leave williams at the end of the season if the team , as virtually certain , finishes lower than fourth in the constructors ' championship , he says he is committed to staying where he is .
" i have a contract for 2009 with williams so it is clear which team i will drive for , " said rosberg , who added that he does n't " regret " the fact that mclaren did n't come in for him .
" that would n't help .
i always look forward and try to make decisions that are right for me at the time , " he said .
waiting for his chance " i am certain that my time will come and that i will be able to deliver wheel-to-wheel battles with lewis hamilton , " he said .
" sometimes it takes a little longer than expected for the chance to go to a good team .
you have to have patience . " dpa news agency -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hamilton wins at hockenheim , germany 's heidfeld fourth lewis hamilton celebrated his second formula one victory in succession on sunday , july 20 as the mclaren-mercedes driver won the german grand prix at hockenheim .
germany 's top placed driver was nick heidfeld in fourth .
-lrb- 20.07.2008 -rrb- germany 's veritas racing car poised for a comeback a modern road-going version of germany 's first formula 1 car , the veritas rs iii , is back with an ultra-flat design and a powerful bmw engine .
-lrb- 06.07.2008 -rrb- the nürburgring gets a makeover the nürburgring , germany 's oldest racetrack , recently got a dramatic makeover .
the legendary formula one race course , nicknamed the green hell , is to be turned into a year-round leisure center .
-lrb- 29.06.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions hands down dw pundits hope a palm and 50 cents are all it takes to get the scores right on match day 14 .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg cantona 's revolution former footballer , now actor eric cantona wants to start a revolution targetting the banks .
listen to the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de science -pipe- 01.08.2008 public needs better understanding of genetics , expert says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : genetics could lead to medical breakthroughs genetically modified foods , test-tube babies - the details of genetics can be hard to grasp .
the president of the international genetics federation told dw-world.de about genetics ' possibilities and challenges . alfred nordheim has chaired of the department of molecular biology at the interfaculty institute of cell biology at the university of tuebingen since 1997 .
he was elected the president of the international genetics federation in 2008 . dw-world.de : europeans are strongly opposed to genetically modified food .
is this opposition justified ? alfred nordheim : the current discussion reminds me very much of the one during the 1970s , as molecular biology was making genetic manipulation possible .
at the time , very strict genetic engineering laws were passed .
these were subsequently eased as fears were shown to have been excessive and unfounded . today 's concerns about nutrients from gene-manipulated plants and animals are fundamentally justifiable , but they are excessive .
each newly developed food would be tested and checked before it came to market .
i believe that for now germany 's existing regulation mechanisms are adequate . the nazi regime passed the prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act 75 years ago which led to at least 400,000 people being sterilized and thousands being killed .
the german society of human genetics recently released a statement calling for the responsible use of genetic science on the anniversary . is there still a danger that genetics could be misused ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many europeans oppose genetically modified foods the recent statement clearly said that we can not close our eyes to the historical events and that we recognize our complicity and accountability .
basic research must always be vigilant , especially in genetics . but the danger posed by racist eugenics - the choosing of human traits for succeeding generations - has been drastically reduced to the point that it no longer has a place in german and international discussions of values . thirty years ago the first test-tube baby was born .
where do you think the line should be drawn in this area ? the question of reproductive medicine , which has to do with hereditary diseases of offspring , is a private one that must be clarified between parents and doctors at human genetics clinics .
i do not want to openly enter into this discussion .
but in contrast to the coercive state programs in the 1920s and 1930s is that today it is exclusively the individual 's choice . do you think that genetics will remain controversial ? the term genetics is often not understood in its full conceptual breadth .
genetics is involved not only with the transmission of hereditary dispositions to future generations , but also cell divisions in a body and the use of genetic information from these cells .
if that were properly understood , it would decrease reservations about genetic changes and stem cells . in 2003 , the human genome with its 3 billion base pairs was completely mapped , even so , this research remains in its infancy .
it will open completely new applications in the biomedical field .
one will be able , for example , to statistically compare the genetic sequences from tumor cells with those from healthy cells .
this will provide new knowledge of how cancer is formed , which will also allow for better tumor therapies to be developed .
it will also be possible to look at why individual patients do or do not respond to certain medications and to create individual therapies . in what direction do you think gene research will develop ? in the coming years , genome sequencing will become faster and cheaper , so that in five or 10 years each individual who wants to will be able to get genome sequencing done for about 10,000 euros -lrb- $ 15,500 -rrb- .
such a sequence analysis could bring with it a lot of prognostic information . free will is important here .
one must be able to decide , as an individual , what one wants to know and what the doctor or insurance company should and should not know . can this type of system work ?
do n't you think , for example , that insurance companies would find a way to misuse the system in order to get information ? this can work when we formulate good and comprehensible rules and also pass laws .
naturally , there can still be abuse .
but if it happens then it would also be punished .
just because a small possibility for misuse exists does n't mean we should stop all of the desirable outcomes from new development . interview : tobias gerhard -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german geneticists condemn nazi eugenics program geneticists in germany marked the 75th anniversary of the " prevention of progeny with hereditary diseases act , " by condemning the euthanization of thousands of handicapped people during the third reich .
-lrb- 15.07.2008 -rrb- british nod to embryo ' chimeras ' raises hackles in germany britain 's decision to legalize hybrid animal-human embryos for medical research was widely met with negative reactions in germany and elsewhere in europe .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- germany eases stem cell restrictions after months of political negotiations , german lawmakers agreed to allow broader embryonic stem cell use .
but they signaled their ambivalence by refusing to completely do away with restrictions .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- feedback if given the chance , would you want to have your dna sequence analyzed ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds maike mia höhne - curator berlinale shorts listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de dw-world : hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- dw-world : new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback feedback : do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour picture of the day dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw-world : dw screensaver dw-world : social bookmarking dw-world : our rss feeds dw-world : dw widgets dw-world : integrated search externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : dw on facebook externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : newsletters externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : netvibes.com the way you want it dw-world : mobile optimized for pdas externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : newsletters news in your inbox externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : audio / video podcasts © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dw-world.de features dw-world : new german films aim to shed light on scientology dw-world : bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast dw-world : retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents dw-world : kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home human rights -pipe- 01.08.2008 hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : carrying the torch for gay rights in russia can be risky gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep . gay pride festivals dot the summer calendar all across europe - from berlin to eskilstuna , sweden , from london to zaragoza , spain .
these days , the events raise few eyebrows and families often bring their children along to admire men in stiletto heels and boas , or in almost nothing at all . this weekend , 17,000 people are expected in stockholm for europride 2008 , 10 days of film screenings , exhibitions and seminars and parties .
about 100,000 are expected to take part in a parade on sunday , aug .
3 . but just a few hours ' plane ride to the east of the swedish capital , the situation is very different . in may , moscow 's city government tried to ban a planned gay pride march for the third year in a row .
the city 's mayor , yuri luzhkov , had once referred to gay rights marches as " satanic . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : volker beck after being attacked by nationalists in moscow the year before , activists gathered outside moscow city hall to protest the government march ban .
they were pelted by eggs and assaulted by orthodox christian and neo-nazi groups while moscow police harassed and arrested peaceful demonstrators , including german parliamentarian volker beck , who had traveled to moscow to lend his support and was attacked . " the difference -lrb- between eastern and western europe -rrb- for gay people is sometimes a really depressing experience , " said tomasz szypula , secretary of the campaign against homophobia , a polish organization that works for legal and social equality for gays and lesbians . " young polish people travel a lot and they go to places like spain , where gays can get married and they are no different under the law than other people , " he said .
" and they come back home and ask ' why ca n't it be like that here ? " ' lagging in acceptance while homosexual acts have been decriminalized across eastern europe , broad societal acceptance of same-sex relationships is often still a long way off .
same-sex marriage is not legal anywhere in eastern europe ; three countries there have instituted constitutional bans .
only hungary and the czech republic have passed legislation giving legal recognition to same-sex couples . while in the netherlands , 82 percent of adults favor allowing same-sex marriage , the approval ratings drop off precipitously as one moves east across a map of the european union , according to a 2006 survey by the european commission .
in slovakia , it is 19 percent , poland , 17 percent and at the bottom of the list is romania , where just 11 percent favor allowing same-sex unions . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the catholic church in poland has been a stumbling block for that country 's gay rights movement the reason for that are varied , say observers .
in poland , the strength of the catholic church , which frowns on homosexuality , plays a large role in slowing legal progress and acceptance for gays and lesbians . " poles are still believers , unlike in many other countries , which makes conservative forces here stronger , " said szypula .
" there is no sexual education in schools because of the church , so young people know little about homosexuality besides what they hear on sunday or on the street . " countries such as hungary and the czech republic did not have strong churches , and among the former warsaw pact nations , they had a slightly more western orientation .
therefore , acceptance levels of homosexuality are higher then in places such as lithuania and latvia , which were more firmly in the russian sphere of influence , according to juris lavrikovs , communications manager for the europe chapter of the international lesbian and gay association . " political elite in countries such as hungary and the czech republic have made it very clear , they oriented toward the west , toward the eu , " he said , speaking on the phone from europride in stockholm .
" poland and latvia are still finding their identities . " slowly but surely bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 5,000 people took part in a gay rights parade in warsaw in may lavrikovs is quick to say while the reports of pride parade bans , hate speech by politicians and homophobic assaults on the streets make headlines , progress is being made , and should not be overlooked . these nations ' joining the eu has already had a measurable affect on attitudes towards gay and lesbians , he said .
one eu directive also prevents discrimination in the workplace according to sexual orientation across the bloc . " by being part of eu , they signed up to a community of values , " lavrikovs said .
" eu membership and the new openness help the cause of equality . " he points to the proposed " horizontal directive " currently under debate in brussels , which would provide protection against discrimination in access to goods and services on the basis of gender and race , disability , age , sexual orientation and religion .
that would be a milestone for gays and lesbians in the eu , and send a strong anti-discrimination message to national governments and european citizens .
the proposal is controversial in many countries the road to passage promises to be long . but he , for one , is optimistic that eastern europe will one day be on a par with western europe vis-a-vis gay and lesbian rights .
even though , acceptance is anything but total even in the relatively liberal west . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police block anti-gay demonstrators in latvia three protestant lutheran churches in stockholm have been vandalized because of the church 's participation in the gay and lesbian festival the city is hosting .
a male gay couple was also stabbed and robbed in the swedish capital in what police described monday as a hate crime . still , the atmosphere in sweden and other western european countries is generally much better than in the west , but lavrikovs said one has to keep things in perspective , especially since eastern europe did not experience many of the social developments that happened in western europe for half a century . " so a lot of things there are happening very fast , including lots of clashes which are quite disturbing , " he said .
" society has n't quite caught up yet , but things are developing . " kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : europride returns to glad-to-be-gay stockholm a decade after stockholm first hosted europride , the swedish capital is again gearing up for the 10-day event that attracts thousands of homosexuals , bisexuals and transgenders from near and afar .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : gay pride parades highlight discrimination against homosexuals thousands of people across europe participated in gay pride events on june 28 .
in parts of eastern europe , the gathering of gays and lesbians to protest discrimination ended in violence and arrests .
-lrb- 28.06.2008 -rrb- dw-world : pride season pits pro-gay groups against intolerance as cold european air gives way to a warmer front , the season of eastern european gay pride parades is at hand to remind authorities of tolerance toward sexual minorities .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day dw-tv europe live journal - with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : news audio : audio : listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
dw-world : the quintessential bulgarian dw-world : romanian countryside transformed by eu dw-world : prague - past and present dw-world : an ossie heads west dw-world : romania struggling through the crisis dw-world : the charm of budapest dw-world : greek challenge : tackle corruption dw-world : saying ' adios ' to spain after seven years dw-world : hardly politics as usual dw-world : discovering moldova 's hidden riches europe keep up with the latest in europe .
video : macedonia 's drug city video : belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
deutsche welle annual report for 2008 -pipe- publications -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle о компании пресс-сервис сотрудничество академия dw dw-store контакт помощь наши партнеры карта сайта архив search keywords search dw-world : расширенный поиск your link to germany выбрать из 30 языков выбрать из 30 языков выбрать из 30 языков english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu выбрать из 30 языков 04.12.2009 home press press releases press kit publications multimedia press contacts publications -pipe- 01.08.2008 deutsche welle annual report for 2008 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : here you can download deutsche welle ’ s annual report for the year ending december 31 , 2008 .
all of the available files are pdf format . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic downloads download : 2008 - analysis of fixes assets.pdf download : 2008 - balance sheet.pdf download : 2008 - cash flow account.pdf download : 2008 - income statement.pdf download : 2008 - revenue and expenditure account.pdf download : 2008 - notes to financial statements.pdf download : 2008 - management report.pdf dw-tv europe live in focus - adventures in the mudflats we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : european business week audio : audio : listen live june 3-5 , 2009 deutsche welle global media forum © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dw-world.de features -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 01.08.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.01.2010 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 01.08.2008 dw-world.de features every week , dw-world.de 's staff writers offer you in-depth feature stories that take a closer look at german and european topics .
whether the subject is politics , international relations , business , lifestyle trends , scientific discoveries or cultural developments , we take the story one step further . in case you missed the most recent articles , we 've compiled them in this dossier .
click on the links below to find out what 's been moving germany and europe . dw-world.de dw-world : hurdles still high for gays in eastern europe gays and lesbians in western europe enjoy legal rights and levels of tolerance that would have been almost unthinkable 15 years ago .
but in eastern europe , hostility and discrimination against homosexuals still run deep .
-lrb- 01.08.2008 -rrb- dw-world : new german films aim to shed light on scientology film companies in germany are now making attempts to look behind what they believe is the true nature of scientology .
the movies are primarily aimed at young people , who are most likely to fall for the organization .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : retirement homes in germany dish up veggie fare for residents more and more germans seniors move to assisted living centers each year .
while most would n't give the menu choices a second thought , there are an increasing number of options for the retiring vegetarian .
-lrb- 30.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : bayreuth festival enters the 21st century with web broadcast the world famous bayreuth festival , celebrating the life and work of richard wagner , is currently underway in germany .
but this year there is a new twist : opera live on the internet .
is this the future for opera ? -lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : kurdish exiles in germany feel pain of protracted war at home when twin bombings ripped through a busy square in istanbul sunday , some in turkey blamed the militant kurdish workers ' party -lrb- pkk -rrb- for the blasts .
that renewed focus on the group does n't bode well for many kurds abroad .
-lrb- 29.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : experts : obama did what he needed to do in berlin barack obama 's speech in in berlin on thursday , july 24 was largely seen by german experts and commentators as a success .
he pulled off the delicate balancing act he needed to , they said .
-lrb- 25.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : anticipation , griping increases before obama speech in berlin the " obama show , " as one newspaper calls it , is set to take berlin by storm on thursday , july 24 .
but a small minority is questioning whether the democratic candidate can live up to the hype - or justify the costs .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : karadzic arrest hugely improves serbian standing with eu belgrade has reaped international praise and its first rewards for taking former bosnian-serb leader radovan karadzic into custody .
but will it clear the way for serbia to join the eu ?
balkans experts say perhaps .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : designers say berlin is not alpha and omega of german fashion berlin may be making a name for itself as a trendy , cosmopolitan city with its own fashion week , but there is german fashion beyond the capital .
and it 's not all dirndls and lederhosen either .
-lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- dw-world : hitler card game raises eyebrows in germany a publishing house in berlin has released a card game featuring 32 dictators , including adolf hitler .
the creators wanted to make an ironic statement about the tyrants but not everyone appreciates the joke .
-lrb- 16.07.2008 -rrb- feedback feedback : do you want to comment on these or any other stories on dw-world.de ?
then please write to us and make sure to include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour picture of the day dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw-world : dw screensaver dw-world : social bookmarking dw-world : our rss feeds dw-world : dw widgets dw-world : integrated search externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : dw on facebook externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : newsletters externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : netvibes.com the way you want it dw-world : mobile optimized for pdas externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : newsletters news in your inbox externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- uk nuclear energy deal ' off ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:47 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 06:47 uk uk nuclear energy deal ' off ' please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement british nuclear power stations are now unlikely to be sold to a french state-owner firm after talks broke down .
edf had been expected to announce it was buying british energy which owns eight reactors in the uk .
hugh pym reports .
see also british energy rejects takeover -lrb- 10.59 -rrb- new nuclear stations planned -lrb- 01.29 -rrb- new company to run sellafield -lrb- 01.06 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep ' a catastrophe , no overstatement ' ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' police ' smash pensioner 's car ' one-minute world news editor 's choice improvements to the bbc news website skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- uk nuclear energy deal ' off ' accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:47 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 06:47 uk uk nuclear energy deal ' off ' please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement british nuclear power stations are now unlikely to be sold to a french state-owner firm after talks broke down .
edf had been expected to announce it was buying british energy which owns eight reactors in the uk .
hugh pym reports .
see also british energy rejects takeover -lrb- 10.59 -rrb- new nuclear stations planned -lrb- 01.29 -rrb- new company to run sellafield -lrb- 01.06 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio the moment the pope was knocked down pope knocked over at mass patriarch arrives in bethlehem ten amazing facts about bees obama welcomes passing of healthcare bill editor 's choice how bees perform perfect landing ho , ho , ho : astronauts ' festive cheer us governor 's presidential thanks sculptors create sand nativity scene ' oldest ' gorilla celebrates birthday skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games bbc news / south east wales graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- uk election -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk big screen to show beijing games shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- uk election -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games bbc news / south east wales graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- magazine 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk big screen to show beijing games shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version big screen to show beijing games the new screen has been set up outside st david 's hall in the hayes shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories arrest after man dies tobogganing coin depot robbery suspect bailed puppy rescued after 10m sea fall most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man in hiding betrayed by pet dog singing ' rewires ' damaged brain frog reveals secret of monogamy jail term for drunk train driver bbc news headlines most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog tv man gave up dead lover 's name odeon confirms wonderland boycott day in pictures threat from e-waste ' mountains ' swiss man surrenders to libyans lufthansa pilots suspend strike guilty plea in new york bomb plot eu condemns dubai passport plot most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany israeli drone ' can reach iran ' one-minute world news fresh madeira landslide warning highlights from the bafta awards father on false paedophilia facebook posts space shuttle endeavour lands portugal to mourn madeira victims polanski wins berlin film award tensions grow between china and us most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers day in pictures eye-catching images from around the world lives in our hands lufthansa pilot on why his colleagues went on strike most popular now most popular now -pipe- 57,714 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version big screen to show beijing games the new screen has been set up outside st david 's hall in the hayes shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories ex-minister howells standing down freehold boost for child hospice new deputy chief constable named most popular stories now shared read watched / listened auschwitz death camp sign stolen the first glimpse of dark matter ?
deepest volcano caught on video iran government ' will not last ' youtube post leads to movie deal most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened iran government ' will not last ' auschwitz death camp sign stolen dna frees us prisoner 35 years on heavy snowfall causes disruption day in pictures the first glimpse of dark matter ?
leaders must strike deal - obama deepest volcano caught on video iran troops ' seize iraq oil well ' sir paul backs rage to top charts most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened deepest undersea eruption ever filmed obama : full address on climate nicole kidman on nine karoubi : ' force keeping iran government in power ' snowy scenes from around the uk hollywood deal after youtube post avatar movie 's special effects doctor 's diary : fad diets one-minute world news sky diving into an active volcano most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis dot.life an attack on twitter and mapping uk snow yemen decline uncertainty and fear for remaining yemen jews day in pictures some eye-catching images from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 96,229 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version big screen to show beijing games the new screen has been set up outside st david 's hall in the hayes shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories ' bitter ' ex ' killed girl ' in fire salon ' concerns ' before burning two teenagers killed in car crash most popular stories now shared read watched / listened tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' man killed wife ' during a dream ' two kite surfers jump over pier t-mobile staff sold personal data age of cyber warfare is ' dawning ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened man killed wife ' during a dream ' ' ex-nazi ' charged with 58 murders lhc nears restart after repairs day in pictures taliban leader ' flees pakistan ' t-mobile staff sold personal data two kite surfers jump over pier age of cyber warfare is ' dawning ' tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' somali pirates free spanish boat most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news army 's new night vision equipment world domino record set on tv tour of world 's fastest steam car conjoined twins op ' successful ' antarctic ice traps cruise ship cctv of raid before fatal crash ' ex nazi ' charged with 58 murders mexico battles drugs and corruption nasa 's atlantis shuttle blasts off most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis centre stage how the velvet revolution was led from a theatre day in pictures striking images from around the world earth watch climate treaty explores the meaning of ' binding ' most popular now most popular now -pipe- 83,414 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version big screen to show beijing games the new screen has been set up outside st david 's hall in the hayes shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories community-wide projects ' cheaper ' family tribute to gate death girl parking fines rise in crackdown most popular stories now shared read watched / listened close encounters with giant eagle sitting straight ' bad for backs ' ' poverty gap ' widens under labour untidy beds may keep us healthy israel 's rocky friendship with obama most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened singer george michael is arrested japan tv halts sumo amid scandal ' net closing ' on suspected gunman porn film shot in london hospital judge rules over men at work song cheryl cole treated for malaria bus driver shoots cairo workers indonesia sex scandal stirs internet debate thailand extends emergency rule justin bieber 's ' north korea tour ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened what the higgs ' harmonic signatures ' may sound like amsterdam turns orange for world cup one-minute world news chess legend fischer 's remains exhumed kookaburra sits in the old gum tree men at work face plagiarism case footballer rebuilds family home in jamaica marseille mosque sparks controversy archive : queen addresses un assembly planck reveals ' spectacular ' sky most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis tangled web debate over indonesia sex scandal goes online township diva a south african opera star 's incredible journey royal approval the significance of the queen 's speech to the un most popular now most popular now -pipe- 154,614 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 solar system full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version big screen to show beijing games the new screen has been set up outside st david 's hall in the hayes shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories police ' failed ' deaf man who died man cleared over 1987 axe murder landslide disrupts rail services most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' alien ' planet found in milky way dublin needs aid , minister admits ' i hated my face in the mirror ' a380 engine blast ' broke cables ' camera takes photos around corner six states to miss nobel ceremony donald trump eyes us presidency sweden seeks assange in rape case royal wedding venue speculation ' detonator ' on plane to germany most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news breaking down racial barriers camera shoots around corners ' alien ' planet detected circling dying star ' do my birth parents think of me on my birthday ? '
john lennon 's ' new yorker ' years one-minute world news new iphone unveiled on board a navy training patrol hajj pilgrimage drawing to a close most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 68,986 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version big screen to show beijing games the new screen has been set up outside st david 's hall in the hayes shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories suspect in court over 2003 murder four arrested over father 's death ' fill empty private homes ' call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened native americans battle teenage suicide rwanda : how the genocide happened ' praying ' dog at japanese temple most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ally urges irish general election diagrams that changed the world would a mass cash withdrawal bring down the banks ?
nazi suspect dies ahead of trial israel starts egypt border fence huge rocket launches from florida day in pictures : 22 november 2010 europe 's new astronauts graduate suu kyi 's son granted burma visa potter film takes $ 330m worldwide most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened edna o 'brien on irish bailout shame irish protesters march on parliamentâ € ž one-minute world news " we 've been lied to consistently " karel de gucht - ' china to revalue currency ' meet the new nissan leaf europe 's reaction to irish bail-out obama on full body airport scans syria attempts to develop infrastructure rapper ' shyne ' finds jewish roots most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 102,643 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version big screen to show beijing games the new screen has been set up outside st david 's hall in the hayes shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories jobs fear in companies house cuts tram driver summonsed over death daily new york flight talks ' end ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened tea ' healthier ' drink than water einstein and newton ' had autism ' in video : bramham 2010 course kingsolver crowned orange winner bafta tv awards 2010 : the winners most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna study unlocks jewish diaspora iran dismisses new un sanctions google accused of criminal intent afghan ' wedding blast ' kills 39 boys deny younger sister 's rape is that woman pregnant or fat ?
fox pictured after twins attack top prize for swiss solar pioneer dutch election in tight finish romanian stowaway on private jet most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan one-minute world news new cctv footage of haiti quake sex and the city 2 reviewed by mark kermode wwii plane lands with a bump corden in spat with sir patrick sa fans go ' crazy ' at team parade argentine opera house reopens capello rants at photographers mexico struggles with ' war on drugs ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis your ideas 18 ways readers would have tackled the oil spill day in pictures most striking images from around the world from bbc sport > > mystery men the secretive world of n korean football most popular now most popular now -pipe- 75,443 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- big screen to show beijing games british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version big screen to show beijing games the new screen has been set up outside st david 's hall in the hayes shoppers and workers will be able to catch all the action from the olympics games via a big screen in the centre of cardiff .
the 25m square screen has been set up outside the city 's st david 's hall on the hayes and will screen coverage every day from 0800 until 2000 bst .
the screen forms part of a uk network known as live sites with more than 30 others situated around the country .
all the games coverage will be supplied courtesy of the bbc .
the screens will also broadcast the london 2012 olympic handover celebrations .
each screen has interactive capabilities enabling each location to link up with one another as the action takes place .
the fixed locations will be used to show other major events to the public in the lead up to london 2012 and the paralympic games and beyond .
in the meantime , they will also broadcast a range of local information , news and major cultural , sporting , educational and community events .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
related internet links beijing 2008 cardiff county council london 2012 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories man ' threw toddler against wall ' venue tours for sight impaired dizaei accused of assault in jail most popular stories now shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' a glimpse of life inside castro 's revolutionary hideout most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' ice island breaks from greenland foreign medical workers among 10 killed in afghanistan adultery case woman attacks iran a glimpse of life inside castro 's revolutionary hideout shot uk medical worker identified muslims host ' anti-terror ' camp turkish man accused of wife beating in nz ' was dancing ' pakistan issues flooding ' red alert ' for sindh province woman shown her own rape on phone most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened on board the flight that bombed hiroshima flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep five minutes with : hanif kureishi thousands slash ' pirate ' record monty python team caught in early home movie police ' smash pensioner 's car ' western ' threat ' to african health advice castro returning to public life ' a catastrophe , no overstatement ' president zardari interviewed most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 44,943 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories firefighters warned over shifts lamplugh police end body search rum bottle cocaine killer jailed most popular stories now shared read watched / listened philippines country profile camera ' looks ' through clothing is wildlife being eaten to extinction ?
most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened man grows pea plant inside lung pakistan flood desperation grows dying girl photographs criticised bin laden chef gets jail sentence misspelt road signs : your photos india tribal ' made to walk naked ' lindsay lohan judge steps aside russia fires reach chernobyl zone n korea world cup ' abuse ' probed why do we all use qwerty keyboards ?
most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened saudi women photograph their world inside obama 's favourite burger joint women dice with death on m6 woman starts fight over chicken nuggets britain 's ' oldest house ' discovered one-minute world news an uncertain future for iraq 's sunni militia us and russia in hijack plane exercise father ' paralysed ' by children 's deaths autistic superstars most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 18,400 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories special pcs in train death probe man in court over mother 's murder family stabbing witness appeal most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened taliban targets : women , children , foreigners russia ban on grain export begins ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam in pictures : zurich 's dance parade mexico cartel blockades monterrey shooting halts women baseball cup nairobi bikers improve their own slum diana dors sports car to be sold celebrations as princess turns 60 obama plea for gulf coast tourism most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news new york ' puckers-up for peace ' how to get a grip on your inbox princess anne visits uk troops cctv of ' air steward 's emergency exit ' bp pushes on with gulf relief well mexicans seal new kissing record obama vows to ' restore ' gulf coast mumbai tackles malaria for economic health russia bans wheat and grain exports most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 24,243 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories london poised for heavy snowfall guard ' planned ' fatal store raid tfl ' wasted ' £ 20m on tube access most popular stories now shared read watched / listened plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' in pictures : sussex in the snow two killer whale types identified school closures across wales most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened schools closed as blizzards hit pornographic videos flood youtube australia downplays india warning china sued by us software company obama secures intelligence pledge google unveils nexus one handset plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' google phone to protect ad empire explosive planted in airport test most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened view from the top of world 's tallest building google unveils nexus one handset one-minute world news porn videos floods youtube runaway pig sparks road chase china 's sparkling ice festival snow forces mountain rescues in japan viewers ' videos of snow scenes ' naked ' scanner in airport trial ' up to 40cm of snow expected ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland major blow cia ' triple agent ' killing embarrases us and jordan most popular now most popular now -pipe- 50,914 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened how far can a 100-word vocabulary get you ?
thailand battles southern floods obama not ruling out libya arms most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened japan to scrap stricken reactors bbc website crashes for an hour obama not ruling out libya arms live : libya and mid-east crisis baltic message in bottle answered missing nyc cobra now ' tweeting ' royal weddings of the past facebook removes ' intifada ' page inquiry into ' fake bomb ' flight thailand battles southern floods most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news olga kotelko : the 91-year-old track star clashes on the front line in libya the moment reagan was shot how the tsunami unfolded fukushima radiation fears spread uk space agency launches in swindon fears of escalating mid east conflict libya : air strikes will continue , says us syrian government resigns most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme track star the canadian breaking records in her nineties saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 101,171 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened protein in brain linked to autism bahrain and iran expel diplomats japan nuclear progress as toll up crucifixes in classrooms ' legal ' ' drugs to the brain ' breakthrough most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened missile destroys gaddafi building japan nuclear progress as toll up live : libya crisis bahrain and iran expel diplomats uk missiles bombard libya again taxing the oldest profession in amsterdam drones ' winning ' war against al-qaeda airstrikes on libya : mapped in pictures : south africa 's ruthless ' red ants ' eviction squad haitians vote for new president most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' tanks and snipers ' all around misrata tsunami floodgate that did n't work one-minute world news whale 's ' yacht landing ' caught on film footage of moment tsunami hit japan new footage : japan tsunami at sea gaddafi defiant after air strikes how the tsunami unfolded dramatic footage of libya airstrikes what next for gaddafi and libya ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 943 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories tomlinson post-mortem report held the xx take mercury music prize tube strike ends after 24 hours most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most believe ' retirement is over ' webscape soros doubles investment in gold most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened church defiant over koran stunt afghan dancing boys sexually abused suicides cost japan economy $ 32bn good dancing link to male health wwii mass grave found in slovenia powerful tremor rattles nz city un ' failed ' dr congo rape victims pension rallies hit french cities dwarf galaxies gobbled by giants us college offers zombie studies most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened angelina jolie visits pakistan good and bad dancing put to test belgian pm on eurozone integration life for roma expelled from france five minutes with : sir ian mckellen rare colour footage of the blitz rare clouded leopards born in us zoo taliban disguised as us troops andrea bocelli concerts to mark 9/11 india cashes in on smartphone apps most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 17,186 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links battle of britain pakistan floods full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news at ten news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened making content do the talking tools ' demand new american story ' japan inquiry into nuclear leak ivory coast : ' a million ' refugees most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan leader ' arming volunteers ' protests spread in syrian cities live : libya crisis japan inquiry into nuclear leak tools ' demand new american story ' the bizarre world of time zones priests in indian sex abuse deal burma earthquake death toll rises ' second victim ' missing for years harper canadian government falls most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news raf tornados strike libyan tank targets african union ' ignored ' over libya crisis about time : the science of time ' propaganda war ' stepped up in libya one-minute world news at the scene of a libya missile strike viewing the spectacular northern lights mod on threat from gaddafi 's missiles anger and worry grow over tepco most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 69,271 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories special pcs in train death probe man in court over mother 's murder runaway train on london tube line most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened pakistan says 20m hit by floods obama backs ' ground zero mosque ' ' four dead ' in ny state shooting sun 's ' quiet period ' explained jewel gang ' thief ' sent to japan net neutrality protest at google titanic salvagers awarded $ 110m passengers hurt as coaches crash rise of the mamils -lrb- middle-aged men in lycra -rrb- klm holds out on ash compensation most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened cctv of ' air steward 's emergency exit ' one-minute world news obama defends new york mosque plan ' a disaster of epic proportions ' german s boat restored using footage pakistan says 20m hit by floods life on the edge : korogocho 's biker boys how to get a grip on your inbox scotch on the rocks for antarctic whisky fry ' delighted ' to join canaries most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 89,457 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened us oil spill executives get bonus chinese artist barred from flight prostate screening has no benefit most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened sheen live show bombs in detroit french take over abidjan airport fukushima workers ' bodies found fighting resumes in libyan cities afghan koran protests spreading chinese artist barred from flight us oil spill executives get bonus explosions strike pakistan shrine taylor love letters up for sale thousands are missing in mexico most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened fighting rages in ivory coast one-minute world news what will airports of the future look like ?
tsunami dog rescued at sea tsunami wave sweeps inland my new life as a husky handler tutu : ' end the carnage ' in libya town that stood up to the tsunami one-minute world news susan boyle marks her 50th birthday most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 58,329 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © 2011 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories mother and daughter found killed met officers face assault charges trio abseil big ben for repairs most popular stories now shared read watched / listened taking on the taliban in kandahar why chile 's earthquake shook ecuador most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened woman banned from all sainsbury 's airports staff vote for strikes iran stoning woman ' confesses ' chinese ' infant breasts ' inquiry man held over us serial stabbings singer michael faces drug charge brazil to record ufo sightings day in pictures pakistani president in flood zone india sets deadline on blackberry most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened how a tragedy unfolded in pakistan ' world 's biggest ' tidal turbine unveiled woman starts fight over chicken nuggets british teenager finds cult fame in japan cloned meat - from lab to plate europe 's changing holiday habits women dice with death on m6 stinging jellyfish invade spanish coast aerial video shows portugal fires how blind football is played most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 64,843 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories luxury jewellery stolen in raid collapsed sewer closes ring-road fallen remembered on vj day most popular stories now shared read watched / listened pow recalls hiroshima bomb blast taliban targets : women , children , foreigners most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ban shocked by pakistan flooding diana dors sports car to be sold man , 19 , raped in county tyrone spectators killed at us car race horrors faced by ' forgotten army ' petraeus hedges over afghan exit ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars bomb hoax hits lourdes pilgrims luxury jewellery stolen in raid most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened un chief 's sorrow at pakistan crisis ethiopia 's ancient rock churches spectators killed at us car race jerusalem projection draws tourists how to get a grip on your inbox disease fear for flood-hit pakistan one-minute world news spectators die at off-road race one-minute world news webscape - treasure hunting and responsible travel most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 44,857 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories london flooding damage assessed mother and daughter found killed first arrests by new fraud body most popular stories now shared read watched / listened halal holidays in the sun website publishes ' 9/11 messages ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened germany in ' record ' 2.2 % growth swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty peru battles killer vampire bats france condemns officer in togo many stuck as travel firm folds home computers discover rare star moscow ' hiding heatstroke cases ' fresh flood surge due in pakistan ' first ' newborn beavers spotted fears over £ 65bn ' nhs mortgage ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened picky eater : ' pasta is like live worms ' uk teenager finds fame in japan pakistan 's floods from the air us schoolboy to visit north korea scanner uncovers river 's mystery objects women dice with death on m6 one-minute world news ' world 's biggest ' tidal turbine unveiled open-air swimming plus the great migration europe 's changing holiday habits most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 75,071 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news at ten news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories vicar forgives daughter 's killers 100,000 x-rays ' went unchecked ' cheering algerians throng london most popular stories now shared read watched / listened affectionate cat distracts policeman commuter cat is star of bus route somali woman stoned for adultery tiny chip could diagnose disease from boxing ring to synagogue most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened somali woman stoned for adultery hijacked tanker 's captain ' dies ' rabbi ' offered cocaine for sex ' girl bullies guilty of fall death ' critical moment ' for afghanistan poor women ' bear climate burden ' driver lost on 600km shops trip obama admits delay on guantanamo afghan corruption a political obstacle row over russia lawyer jail death most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened affectionate cat distracts policeman commuter cat is star of bus route crane splits us home in half challenges facing 9/11 memorial one-minute world news film captures rare white deer patrolling iraq 's borders floods hit cumbria and yorkshire dales who is mr van rompuy ?
obama visits china 's great wall most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis outlook : cloudy future of global carbon market is uncertain on the take how corruption permeates life in afghanistan false alarm ?
little evidence to support iraqi claims of border infiltration most popular now most popular now -pipe- 85,057 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version pillar memorial for 7/7 victims antony gormley has acted as an independent adviser a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks .
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement families and architects will work together e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more london attacks victims of 7 july tributes to the 52 people killed in the london bombs latest news call for public inquiry into 7/7 emergency response criticised survivors recall experiences extra £ 2.5m for july bomb victims lack of resources blamed clickable guide 7 july : investigation background key findings of london assembly at-a-glance : government reports q & a : july bombings report missed opportunities bomber ' influenced ' by preacher community may hold clues pakistani bomb trail cold profiles : suicide bombers have your say what lessons have been learned ?
video and audio eyewitness accounts see also ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 07 jul 08 -pipe- london first bombings memorial unveiled 27 aug 05 -pipe- london top london stories controversial brent councillor goes solo age limit restricts 2012 helpers error leads to new ballot papers most popular stories now shared read watched / listened fat americans a ' security threat ' hundreds strip off in lowry shoot the virginity industry prostate cancer vaccine approved bp under fire over us oil spill most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened hundreds strip off in lowry shoot weather hampers us oil clean-up plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' fat americans a ' security threat ' ' bigot ' row woman will not vote escort girl claims cast cloud over french football protesters confront greek police in pictures : may day rallies rwandan leader snubs us lawsuit bp under fire over us oil spill most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened nude volunteers pose for art shoot alaska 's tallest structure demolished naked crowd gathers for climate change nudes pose at irish castle inmates could help oil clean-up one-minute world news fresh protests hit greece no food or water for 70 years ?
brown laughs off tory demo five minutes with : amy williams most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis elusive peace fearful times as militants regroup in swat valley blow the whistle call-girl 's claims cast cloud over french football in pictures demonstrators mark may day around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 49,657 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who election 2010 formula 1 a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- pillar memorial for 7/7 victims bbc news / london graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 06:49 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 07:49 uk pillar memorial for 7/7 victims a £ 1m memorial of 52 stainless steel pillars is to be erected in memory of those killed in the 7 july london bombings , relatives have revealed .
the columns , one for each victim , will be grouped together in four clusters , representing the four separate attacks that took place in the summer of 2005 .
one bereaved father said they would be as " indestructible as the memories " relatives retained of those killed .
the memorial will be unveiled in london 's hyde park on 7 july next year .
each of the three-metre columns will be inscribed with the date , time and location of each of the four separate attacks . "
the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world " grahame russell victim 's father visitors will be free to wander around them .
a plaque inscribed with the names of the 52 victims will also be placed in the grass banks at the far eastern end of the memorial .
grahame russell , who lost his son philip in the bombing at tavistock square , said many ideas originating from victims ' families were incorporated in the design and that its development had taken time because they wanted " a proper memorial " .
" the stelae remind me that prior to july 7 these 52 people that died stood tall in this world , the material itself is as indestructible as the memories we have of them , " he added .
' say the unsayable ' julie nicholson , who stood down as vicar in bristol because she felt unable to forgive her daughter jennifer 's killer , said she felt it would be " difficult " to find a memorial that would " express everything that needs to be expressed " .
but she said she was reassured when designers stated their intention " was to find a silent thing that can eloquently say the unsayable " .
saba mozakka , whose mother behnaz was killed at king 's cross , added that the memorial was " also about giving something back to the city " .
artist antony gormley , creator of the angel of the north , has acted as an independent adviser for the memorial .
he said the monument was " an opportunity for loss victims to be in contact with the living " .
the public can view the design on its website from next week .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : ceremony remembers victims of 7/7 -lrb- 07 jul 08 -pipe- london -rrb- first bombings memorial unveiled -lrb- 27 aug 05 -pipe- london -rrb- search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- fringe focuses on harsh realities bbc news / scotland graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 07:22 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:22 uk fringe focuses on harsh realities by nigel wrench pm programme , radio 4 harsh reality - from a nazi death camp to passenger jet emergencies and the 7/7 bombers - is taking centre stage at the edinburgh fringe , which opens officially this sunday .
you 'll still find the usual fringe mayhem among the record 2,088 shows at 247 venues .
there is pot noodle the musical for instance , why i ate charles dickens and as many stand-up comedians as you can stomach .
but there is also charlie victor romeo , its title taken from the call-sign for cvr , cockpit voice recorder .
the show has been a big hit in america where it was first performed in 1999 .
the script comprises word-for-word transcripts from black box flight recorders , and an award-winning sound design surrounds the audience with noise from the flight deck .
irving gregory , one of the show 's creators , said : " we 're not out to frighten people but we 'd certainly like their attention . "
the show could hardly be more topical after the emergency on a qantas flight over the south china sea last week .
if that experience is not harrowing enough there is the factory , performed to a standing audience in an old beer cellar .
the piece aims to recreate the gas chambers at auschwitz / birkenau during the second world war .
a woman pleads with other prisoners as they are led down to the gas chambers , the audience among them .
steven lambert , who devised the show , said : " one of the ideas behind it is to give a reality to violence .
" one of the things that happens through television particularly is that we view violence in a very abstract way , as something that does n't really involve pain and suffering and fear .
" creating this experience in this venue gives us the opportunity to explore violence and allows the audience to experience violence in their face . "
at the traverse theatre the new play pornography , by the award-winning playwright simon stephens , dramatises the days before and after the 7/7 bombings in london in 2005 .
the writer said : " the pornography of the title is a metaphor .
the play is about the culture in which the 7/7 bombings took place .
" it 's an attempt to dramatise the idea that the boys who attacked london on that day were , rather than being alien or being monstrous or being separate from the england which they were born and raised in , were actually a product of that england . "
the fringe continues until 25 august .
the question now is whether festival-goers will flock to performances that aim to leave them with a furrowed brow rather than a wry smile as they walk out of the theatre .
send your reaction to this story on the pm blog e-mail this to a friend related internet links pm edinburgh fringe the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- fringe focuses on harsh realities accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:22 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version fringe focuses on harsh realities by nigel wrench pm programme , radio 4 gary faulkner in the factory , recreating a nazi death camp harsh reality - from a nazi death camp to passenger jet emergencies and the 7/7 bombers - is taking centre stage at the edinburgh fringe , which opens officially this sunday .
you 'll still find the usual fringe mayhem among the record 2,088 shows at 247 venues .
there is pot noodle the musical for instance , why i ate charles dickens and as many stand-up comedians as you can stomach .
but there is also charlie victor romeo , its title taken from the call-sign for cvr , cockpit voice recorder .
the show has been a big hit in america where it was first performed in 1999 .
the script comprises word-for-word transcripts from black box flight recorders , and an award-winning sound design surrounds the audience with noise from the flight deck .
irving gregory , one of the show 's creators , said : " we 're not out to frighten people but we 'd certainly like their attention . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the show could hardly be more topical after the emergency on a qantas flight over the south china sea last week .
if that experience is not harrowing enough there is the factory , performed to a standing audience in an old beer cellar .
the piece aims to recreate the gas chambers at auschwitz / birkenau during the second world war .
a woman pleads with other prisoners as they are led down to the gas chambers , the audience among them .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
steven lambert , who devised the show , said : " one of the ideas behind it is to give a reality to violence .
" one of the things that happens through television particularly is that we view violence in a very abstract way , as something that does n't really involve pain and suffering and fear .
" creating this experience in this venue gives us the opportunity to explore violence and allows the audience to experience violence in their face . "
at the traverse theatre the new play pornography , by the award-winning playwright simon stephens , dramatises the days before and after the 7/7 bombings in london in 2005 .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the writer said : " the pornography of the title is a metaphor .
the play is about the culture in which the 7/7 bombings took place .
" it 's an attempt to dramatise the idea that the boys who attacked london on that day were , rather than being alien or being monstrous or being separate from the england which they were born and raised in , were actually a product of that england . "
the fringe continues until 25 august .
the question now is whether festival-goers will flock to performances that aim to leave them with a furrowed brow rather than a wry smile as they walk out of the theatre .
send your reaction to this story on the pm blog e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
edinburgh festivals pauline mclean 's blog the end of the festival means getting back to corrie latest news fireworks herald end of festival festival reveals record takings festival fringe director resigns spirit of fringe award ' cop-out ' fringe show wins festival award bigger mela ' gathering ' cultures fringe ticket sales fall by 10 % connery launches book at festival the comic taking care to be a mess o 'doherty wins main fringe award comic kay in talent show spoof dance show makes festival history festival features winning comics talk debt and divorce tv 's celebrity factor under spotlight hitting the big time concern over age bands for books cambodian children revive traditions the taming of the queue fringe show felt like ' torture ' palestinian poet lives on in show more get in on act at free festival caravan recreates flood aftermath sound of musicals on the fringe edinburgh facts quick guide : edinburgh festivals quick guide : edinburgh fringe in video fringe ticket sales fall dorian gray undressed a street performer 's tale play tackles ethnic violence cambodian revival at festival author protest over age bands sound of musicals at fringe play charts survival journey website links select a festival website edinburgh festivals edinburgh fringe edinburgh international fes edinburgh military tattoo edinburgh international boo edinburgh art festival edinburgh international tel edinburgh people 's festival edinburgh mela edinburgh jazz and blues fe edinburgh interactive festi festival of spirituality an related bbc links pm related internet links edinburgh fringe the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories more snow shuts schools and roads new power line approval expected big chill to last two more weeks most popular stories now shared read watched / listened llandarcy : down to the last drop plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' in pictures : birmingham snow 2010 yemen ' arrests al-qaeda suspects ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened snow disrupts schools and travel australia downplays india warning pornographic videos flood youtube japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat obama given intelligence pledge pi calculated to ' record number ' atom bomb survivor dies , aged 93 plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' google phone to protect ad empire explosive planted in airport test most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened swiss avalanche death toll rises us state reviews shackling laws europe ' will continue to shiver ' runaway pig sparks road chase google unveils nexus one handset porn videos floods youtube china 's sparkling ice festival ' up to 40cm of snow expected ' snow chaos across the uk aerial view of the snow most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland empire protection why google needs a new mobile phone most popular now most popular now -pipe- 78,214 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- fringe focuses on harsh realities accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:22 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version fringe focuses on harsh realities by nigel wrench pm programme , radio 4 gary faulkner in the factory , recreating a nazi death camp harsh reality - from a nazi death camp to passenger jet emergencies and the 7/7 bombers - is taking centre stage at the edinburgh fringe , which opens officially this sunday .
you 'll still find the usual fringe mayhem among the record 2,088 shows at 247 venues .
there is pot noodle the musical for instance , why i ate charles dickens and as many stand-up comedians as you can stomach .
but there is also charlie victor romeo , its title taken from the call-sign for cvr , cockpit voice recorder .
the show has been a big hit in america where it was first performed in 1999 .
the script comprises word-for-word transcripts from black box flight recorders , and an award-winning sound design surrounds the audience with noise from the flight deck .
irving gregory , one of the show 's creators , said : " we 're not out to frighten people but we 'd certainly like their attention . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the show could hardly be more topical after the emergency on a qantas flight over the south china sea last week .
if that experience is not harrowing enough there is the factory , performed to a standing audience in an old beer cellar .
the piece aims to recreate the gas chambers at auschwitz / birkenau during the second world war .
a woman pleads with other prisoners as they are led down to the gas chambers , the audience among them .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
steven lambert , who devised the show , said : " one of the ideas behind it is to give a reality to violence .
" one of the things that happens through television particularly is that we view violence in a very abstract way , as something that does n't really involve pain and suffering and fear .
" creating this experience in this venue gives us the opportunity to explore violence and allows the audience to experience violence in their face . "
at the traverse theatre the new play pornography , by the award-winning playwright simon stephens , dramatises the days before and after the 7/7 bombings in london in 2005 .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the writer said : " the pornography of the title is a metaphor .
the play is about the culture in which the 7/7 bombings took place .
" it 's an attempt to dramatise the idea that the boys who attacked london on that day were , rather than being alien or being monstrous or being separate from the england which they were born and raised in , were actually a product of that england . "
the fringe continues until 25 august .
the question now is whether festival-goers will flock to performances that aim to leave them with a furrowed brow rather than a wry smile as they walk out of the theatre .
send your reaction to this story on the pm blog e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
edinburgh festivals pauline mclean 's blog the end of the festival means getting back to corrie latest news fireworks herald end of festival festival reveals record takings festival fringe director resigns spirit of fringe award ' cop-out ' fringe show wins festival award bigger mela ' gathering ' cultures fringe ticket sales fall by 10 % connery launches book at festival the comic taking care to be a mess o 'doherty wins main fringe award comic kay in talent show spoof dance show makes festival history festival features winning comics talk debt and divorce tv 's celebrity factor under spotlight hitting the big time concern over age bands for books cambodian children revive traditions the taming of the queue fringe show felt like ' torture ' palestinian poet lives on in show more get in on act at free festival caravan recreates flood aftermath sound of musicals on the fringe edinburgh facts quick guide : edinburgh festivals quick guide : edinburgh fringe in video fringe ticket sales fall dorian gray undressed a street performer 's tale play tackles ethnic violence cambodian revival at festival author protest over age bands sound of musicals at fringe play charts survival journey website links select a festival website edinburgh festivals edinburgh fringe edinburgh international fes edinburgh military tattoo edinburgh international boo edinburgh art festival edinburgh international tel edinburgh people 's festival edinburgh mela edinburgh jazz and blues fe edinburgh interactive festi festival of spirituality an related bbc links pm related internet links edinburgh fringe the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories bid to tackle ' obesity time bomb ' action call over hospital hygiene jail term for drunk train driver most popular stories now shared read watched / listened palm oil products and the weekly shop man in hiding betrayed by pet dog frog reveals secret of monogamy topless tobogganing in germany obama unveils new healthcare plan most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog odeon confirms wonderland boycott threat from e-waste ' mountains ' tv man gave up dead lover 's name day in pictures guilty plea in new york bomb plot swiss man surrenders to libyans oil drilling starts in falklands us-led advance in marjah ' steady ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music one-minute world news fresh madeira landslide warning israeli drone ' can reach iran ' archery lesson for blindfolded prince highlights from the bafta awards israeli-born face deportation father on false paedophilia facebook posts most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers day in pictures eye-catching images from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 51,643 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- fringe focuses on harsh realities british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:22 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version fringe focuses on harsh realities by nigel wrench pm programme , radio 4 gary faulkner in the factory , recreating a nazi death camp harsh reality - from a nazi death camp to passenger jet emergencies and the 7/7 bombers - is taking centre stage at the edinburgh fringe , which opens officially this sunday .
you 'll still find the usual fringe mayhem among the record 2,088 shows at 247 venues .
there is pot noodle the musical for instance , why i ate charles dickens and as many stand-up comedians as you can stomach .
but there is also charlie victor romeo , its title taken from the call-sign for cvr , cockpit voice recorder .
the show has been a big hit in america where it was first performed in 1999 .
the script comprises word-for-word transcripts from black box flight recorders , and an award-winning sound design surrounds the audience with noise from the flight deck .
irving gregory , one of the show 's creators , said : " we 're not out to frighten people but we 'd certainly like their attention . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the show could hardly be more topical after the emergency on a qantas flight over the south china sea last week .
if that experience is not harrowing enough there is the factory , performed to a standing audience in an old beer cellar .
the piece aims to recreate the gas chambers at auschwitz / birkenau during the second world war .
a woman pleads with other prisoners as they are led down to the gas chambers , the audience among them .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
steven lambert , who devised the show , said : " one of the ideas behind it is to give a reality to violence .
" one of the things that happens through television particularly is that we view violence in a very abstract way , as something that does n't really involve pain and suffering and fear .
" creating this experience in this venue gives us the opportunity to explore violence and allows the audience to experience violence in their face . "
at the traverse theatre the new play pornography , by the award-winning playwright simon stephens , dramatises the days before and after the 7/7 bombings in london in 2005 .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the writer said : " the pornography of the title is a metaphor .
the play is about the culture in which the 7/7 bombings took place .
" it 's an attempt to dramatise the idea that the boys who attacked london on that day were , rather than being alien or being monstrous or being separate from the england which they were born and raised in , were actually a product of that england . "
the fringe continues until 25 august .
the question now is whether festival-goers will flock to performances that aim to leave them with a furrowed brow rather than a wry smile as they walk out of the theatre .
send your reaction to this story on the pm blog e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
edinburgh festivals pauline mclean 's blog the end of the festival means getting back to corrie latest news fireworks herald end of festival festival reveals record takings festival fringe director resigns spirit of fringe award ' cop-out ' fringe show wins festival award bigger mela ' gathering ' cultures fringe ticket sales fall by 10 % connery launches book at festival the comic taking care to be a mess o 'doherty wins main fringe award comic kay in talent show spoof dance show makes festival history festival features winning comics talk debt and divorce tv 's celebrity factor under spotlight hitting the big time concern over age bands for books cambodian children revive traditions the taming of the queue fringe show felt like ' torture ' palestinian poet lives on in show more get in on act at free festival caravan recreates flood aftermath sound of musicals on the fringe edinburgh facts quick guide : edinburgh festivals quick guide : edinburgh fringe in video fringe ticket sales fall dorian gray undressed a street performer 's tale play tackles ethnic violence cambodian revival at festival author protest over age bands sound of musicals at fringe play charts survival journey website links select a festival website edinburgh festivals edinburgh fringe edinburgh international fes edinburgh military tattoo edinburgh international boo edinburgh art festival edinburgh international tel edinburgh people 's festival edinburgh mela edinburgh jazz and blues fe edinburgh interactive festi festival of spirituality an related bbc links pm related internet links edinburgh fringe the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories high scots nhs spend ' no benefit ' snp alcohol plans face key vote cargo plane ' hit deer on runway ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened tea ' healthier ' drink than water einstein and newton ' had autism ' in video : bramham 2010 course kingsolver crowned orange winner bafta tv awards 2010 : the winners most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna study unlocks jewish diaspora boys deny younger sister 's rape google accused of criminal intent iran dismisses new un sanctions afghan ' wedding blast ' kills 39 is that woman pregnant or fat ?
fox pictured after twins attack top prize for swiss solar pioneer dutch election in tight finish romanian stowaway on private jet most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan new cctv footage of haiti quake sa fans go ' crazy ' at team parade mexico struggles with ' war on drugs ' snake found under van 's bonnet argentine opera house reopens largest snake ' as long as a bus ' sex and the city 2 reviewed by mark kermode one-minute world news korea plane lands on its tail most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis your ideas 18 ways readers would have tackled the oil spill day in pictures most striking images from around the world from bbc sport > > mystery men the secretive world of n korean football most popular now most popular now -pipe- 28,529 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- fringe focuses on harsh realities british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:22 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version fringe focuses on harsh realities by nigel wrench pm programme , radio 4 gary faulkner in the factory , recreating a nazi death camp harsh reality - from a nazi death camp to passenger jet emergencies and the 7/7 bombers - is taking centre stage at the edinburgh fringe , which opens officially this sunday .
you 'll still find the usual fringe mayhem among the record 2,088 shows at 247 venues .
there is pot noodle the musical for instance , why i ate charles dickens and as many stand-up comedians as you can stomach .
but there is also charlie victor romeo , its title taken from the call-sign for cvr , cockpit voice recorder .
the show has been a big hit in america where it was first performed in 1999 .
the script comprises word-for-word transcripts from black box flight recorders , and an award-winning sound design surrounds the audience with noise from the flight deck .
irving gregory , one of the show 's creators , said : " we 're not out to frighten people but we 'd certainly like their attention . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the show could hardly be more topical after the emergency on a qantas flight over the south china sea last week .
if that experience is not harrowing enough there is the factory , performed to a standing audience in an old beer cellar .
the piece aims to recreate the gas chambers at auschwitz / birkenau during the second world war .
a woman pleads with other prisoners as they are led down to the gas chambers , the audience among them .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
steven lambert , who devised the show , said : " one of the ideas behind it is to give a reality to violence .
" one of the things that happens through television particularly is that we view violence in a very abstract way , as something that does n't really involve pain and suffering and fear .
" creating this experience in this venue gives us the opportunity to explore violence and allows the audience to experience violence in their face . "
at the traverse theatre the new play pornography , by the award-winning playwright simon stephens , dramatises the days before and after the 7/7 bombings in london in 2005 .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the writer said : " the pornography of the title is a metaphor .
the play is about the culture in which the 7/7 bombings took place .
" it 's an attempt to dramatise the idea that the boys who attacked london on that day were , rather than being alien or being monstrous or being separate from the england which they were born and raised in , were actually a product of that england . "
the fringe continues until 25 august .
the question now is whether festival-goers will flock to performances that aim to leave them with a furrowed brow rather than a wry smile as they walk out of the theatre .
send your reaction to this story on the pm blog e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
edinburgh festivals pauline mclean 's blog the end of the festival means getting back to corrie latest news fireworks herald end of festival festival reveals record takings festival fringe director resigns spirit of fringe award ' cop-out ' fringe show wins festival award bigger mela ' gathering ' cultures fringe ticket sales fall by 10 % connery launches book at festival the comic taking care to be a mess o 'doherty wins main fringe award comic kay in talent show spoof dance show makes festival history festival features winning comics talk debt and divorce tv 's celebrity factor under spotlight hitting the big time concern over age bands for books cambodian children revive traditions the taming of the queue fringe show felt like ' torture ' palestinian poet lives on in show more get in on act at free festival caravan recreates flood aftermath sound of musicals on the fringe edinburgh facts quick guide : edinburgh festivals quick guide : edinburgh fringe in video fringe ticket sales fall dorian gray undressed a street performer 's tale play tackles ethnic violence cambodian revival at festival author protest over age bands sound of musicals at fringe play charts survival journey website links select a festival website edinburgh festivals edinburgh fringe edinburgh international fes edinburgh military tattoo edinburgh international boo edinburgh art festival edinburgh international tel edinburgh people 's festival edinburgh mela edinburgh jazz and blues fe edinburgh interactive festi festival of spirituality an related bbc links pm related internet links edinburgh fringe the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories scots unemployment rate increases police name three road crash dead man tried to kill disabled wife most popular stories now shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem seychelles haven of the giant tortoise most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened arizona massacre suspect charged brazil 's chinese bikini problem how giffords survived the shot iran plane crashes ' killing 72 ' undercover officer switches sides beckhams expecting fourth child seychelles haven of the giant tortoise rihanna makes history in uk chart ginger ' irresistible to beetles ' shot us politician ' doing well ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news ' i played dead to escape gunman ' customer gets airline boss attention one-minute world news microsoft hints at kinect pc support loughner tackled by wounded woman congresswoman ' was target ' in shooting gifford ' miraculous ' to be alive surgeon ' cautiously optimistic ' technology to keep elderly safe most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 66,757 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- turning russia 's rich soil into riches bbc news / europe graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- 07:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:43 uk turning russia 's rich soil into riches by daniel fisher bbc news , moscow there are almost 100 million acres of farm land lying deserted and unfarmed in one of the world 's most fertile areas - land that could feed millions of people .
this is not a doomsday scenario , it is a russian reality .
at a time when world food prices are causing hunger and poverty for millions of people around the world , it might at first seem criminal .
but those high prices could actually see the land once again bearing food for the world 's markets .
two british farmers from nottinghamshire have been breaking new ground in the southern " chernozem " -lrb- black earth -rrb- region of russia , by turning derelict land into prime wheat growing fields .
their introduction of modern farming methods has boosted production to as much as three times that of local farmers .
roll that out across russia and , without touching any virgin land , russia could be providing the world with up to 300m tonnes of cereals a year - making it the third largest cereal producer behind china and america . "
there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing " local farmer in 2002 richard willows , a former commodities trader , and colin hinchley , a farmer in his own right , came to russia and bought up land in the penza region that no-one was farming .
they set up heartlands farm and began to apply modern farming techniques with hi-tech equipment .
the results have been astounding - a serious eye opener not just for them , but for the local authorities as well .
colin hinchley took us around his 67,000-acre farm and , as we walked through a one of his fields of rippling green wheat , he explained how they did it .
" this land was just scrub land .
it 's not been farmed for eight or nine years , so we have to cut away the vegetation , the grass and all the trees and begin the cultivation process , " he said .
" the soil is very good and very consistent , considered one of the best growing mediums in the world .
and the large scale - this field is the size of an average farm in england .
" so far we have managed to double the yields , but this year we expect three times a normal russian yield - around six tonnes a hectare . "
heartlands have now been followed by many other foreign agro-industrial giants .
and not just foreigners but russians , too , have seen that there is money to be made not just by drilling in the ground but by cultivating it as well .
deserted landscape a short drive off the beaten track on the way back to penza showed a very different story .
at the side of the road we caught sight of a weather-beaten couple using a scythe to cut grass for their horse .
the wife told us : " there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing . "
" the bosses drank it all away , " her husband added .
there are productive farms run by the state but , with one of the lowest levels of investment in agriculture in the world and a lack of manpower , these are few and far between .
many of the villages where these people lived are often now deserted .
one village we drove through had only four wooden homes left out of 400 .
in the centre was a large ruined orthodox church rising up out of the waist-high weeds .
its frescos were all gone and its cupolas colonised by grass .
the only signs of life were the skylarks and cuckoos singing in the trees nearby .
venturing further outside the village we drove cross-country through what seemed like scrubland , but was in fact an abandoned field .
trees and meadow flowers competed with each other on the rolling hillside , and even a wild fox came close to see who had intruded on his peace and quiet .
the rumble of tractor wheels had clearly not been heard here for many years .
over the next three years the same fox will watch heartlands ' satellite-guided tractors transform his hunting ground into a wheat field to feed hungry people .
e-mail this to a friend search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- turning russia 's rich soil into riches british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages russian albanian serbian turkish ukrainian more page last updated at 07:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version turning russia 's rich soil into riches by daniel fisher bbc news , moscow heartlands farm has transformed the landscape there are almost 100 million acres of farm land lying deserted and unfarmed in one of the world 's most fertile areas - land that could feed millions of people .
this is not a doomsday scenario , it is a russian reality .
at a time when world food prices are causing hunger and poverty for millions of people around the world , it might at first seem criminal .
but those high prices could actually see the land once again bearing food for the world 's markets .
two british farmers from nottinghamshire have been breaking new ground in the southern " chernozem " -lrb- black earth -rrb- region of russia , by turning derelict land into prime wheat growing fields .
their introduction of modern farming methods has boosted production to as much as three times that of local farmers .
roll that out across russia and , without touching any virgin land , russia could be providing the world with up to 300m tonnes of cereals a year - making it the third largest cereal producer behind china and america .
there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing local farmer in 2002 richard willows , a former commodities trader , and colin hinchley , a farmer in his own right , came to russia and bought up land in the penza region that no-one was farming .
they set up heartlands farm and began to apply modern farming techniques with hi-tech equipment .
the results have been astounding - a serious eye opener not just for them , but for the local authorities as well .
colin hinchley took us around his 67,000-acre farm and , as we walked through a one of his fields of rippling green wheat , he explained how they did it .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement to russia with ploughs : the british farmers who are heading east " this land was just scrub land .
it 's not been farmed for eight or nine years , so we have to cut away the vegetation , the grass and all the trees and begin the cultivation process , " he said .
" the soil is very good and very consistent , considered one of the best growing mediums in the world .
and the large scale - this field is the size of an average farm in england .
" so far we have managed to double the yields , but this year we expect three times a normal russian yield - around six tonnes a hectare . "
heartlands have now been followed by many other foreign agro-industrial giants .
and not just foreigners but russians , too , have seen that there is money to be made not just by drilling in the ground but by cultivating it as well .
deserted landscape a short drive off the beaten track on the way back to penza showed a very different story .
at the side of the road we caught sight of a weather-beaten couple using a scythe to cut grass for their horse .
traditional farming methods continue in rural russia the wife told us : " there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing . "
" the bosses drank it all away , " her husband added .
there are productive farms run by the state but , with one of the lowest levels of investment in agriculture in the world and a lack of manpower , these are few and far between .
many of the villages where these people lived are often now deserted .
one village we drove through had only four wooden homes left out of 400 .
in the centre was a large ruined orthodox church rising up out of the waist-high weeds .
its frescos were all gone and its cupolas colonised by grass .
the only signs of life were the skylarks and cuckoos singing in the trees nearby .
venturing further outside the village we drove cross-country through what seemed like scrubland , but was in fact an abandoned field .
trees and meadow flowers competed with each other on the rolling hillside , and even a wild fox came close to see who had intruded on his peace and quiet .
the rumble of tractor wheels had clearly not been heard here for many years .
over the next three years the same fox will watch heartlands ' satellite-guided tractors transform his hunting ground into a wheat field to feed hungry people .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
the cost of food key stories food prices vary but crisis remains rich nations ' reneging ' over aid high food costs ' a global burden ' new e africa food crisis warning china to increase grain output pakistan 's poor hit as prices soar long era of cheap food is over features charting the impact of food price fluctuations around the world ethiopia 's ' green ' drought world wakes up to food challenge price rises sow hope for farmers in pictures : ethiopia famine world hunger 's urban edge could gm crops help feed africa ?
biofuel : hero to zero ?
background and analysis challenges for the food summit taking the pulse : eastern europe cost of food facts q & a : world food prices personal stories impact on six families radio 4 series our food , our future have your say are you worried by rising prices ?
top europe stories credit suisse offices are raided french row over bastille parade eu gives backing to ba alliance most popular stories now shared read watched / listened untidy beds may keep us healthy most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened japan marks atom bomb anniversary why have the northern lights moved south ?
spreading pakistan floods hit 4m aziz says west misjudged saddam al-qaeda in pakistan ' top threat ' cameron in iran nuclear ' gaffe ' the moon ' too dry to have life ' campbell was given ' dirty stones ' italy on the brink of new nuclear era ' poo-power ' keeps wheels running most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened wyclef on his presidential ambitions journey to become ' complete musician ' police ' smash pensioner 's car ' ' i saw a few dirty looking stones ' ceremony to mark hiroshima 65 years on ' there 's no help here from the government ' one-minute world news inside mexico 's drugs battleground pupils fearful of mixed school merger galaxies go wild most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 16,957 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- turning russia 's rich soil into riches accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages russian polish serbian turkish ukrainian more page last updated at 07:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version turning russia 's rich soil into riches by daniel fisher bbc news , moscow heartlands farm has transformed the landscape there are almost 100 million acres of farm land lying deserted and unfarmed in one of the world 's most fertile areas - land that could feed millions of people .
this is not a doomsday scenario , it is a russian reality .
at a time when world food prices are causing hunger and poverty for millions of people around the world , it might at first seem criminal .
but those high prices could actually see the land once again bearing food for the world 's markets .
two british farmers from nottinghamshire have been breaking new ground in the southern " chernozem " -lrb- black earth -rrb- region of russia , by turning derelict land into prime wheat growing fields .
their introduction of modern farming methods has boosted production to as much as three times that of local farmers .
roll that out across russia and , without touching any virgin land , russia could be providing the world with up to 300m tonnes of cereals a year - making it the third largest cereal producer behind china and america .
there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing local farmer in 2002 richard willows , a former commodities trader , and colin hinchley , a farmer in his own right , came to russia and bought up land in the penza region that no-one was farming .
they set up heartlands farm and began to apply modern farming techniques with hi-tech equipment .
the results have been astounding - a serious eye opener not just for them , but for the local authorities as well .
colin hinchley took us around his 67,000-acre farm and , as we walked through a one of his fields of rippling green wheat , he explained how they did it .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement to russia with ploughs : the british farmers who are heading east " this land was just scrub land .
it 's not been farmed for eight or nine years , so we have to cut away the vegetation , the grass and all the trees and begin the cultivation process , " he said .
" the soil is very good and very consistent , considered one of the best growing mediums in the world .
and the large scale - this field is the size of an average farm in england .
" so far we have managed to double the yields , but this year we expect three times a normal russian yield - around six tonnes a hectare . "
heartlands have now been followed by many other foreign agro-industrial giants .
and not just foreigners but russians , too , have seen that there is money to be made not just by drilling in the ground but by cultivating it as well .
deserted landscape a short drive off the beaten track on the way back to penza showed a very different story .
at the side of the road we caught sight of a weather-beaten couple using a scythe to cut grass for their horse .
traditional farming methods continue in rural russia the wife told us : " there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing . "
" the bosses drank it all away , " her husband added .
there are productive farms run by the state but , with one of the lowest levels of investment in agriculture in the world and a lack of manpower , these are few and far between .
many of the villages where these people lived are often now deserted .
one village we drove through had only four wooden homes left out of 400 .
in the centre was a large ruined orthodox church rising up out of the waist-high weeds .
its frescos were all gone and its cupolas colonised by grass .
the only signs of life were the skylarks and cuckoos singing in the trees nearby .
venturing further outside the village we drove cross-country through what seemed like scrubland , but was in fact an abandoned field .
trees and meadow flowers competed with each other on the rolling hillside , and even a wild fox came close to see who had intruded on his peace and quiet .
the rumble of tractor wheels had clearly not been heard here for many years .
over the next three years the same fox will watch heartlands ' satellite-guided tractors transform his hunting ground into a wheat field to feed hungry people .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
the cost of food key stories food prices vary but crisis remains rich nations ' reneging ' over aid high food costs ' a global burden ' new e africa food crisis warning china to increase grain output pakistan 's poor hit as prices soar long era of cheap food is over features charting the impact of food price fluctuations around the world ethiopia 's ' green ' drought world wakes up to food challenge price rises sow hope for farmers in pictures : ethiopia famine world hunger 's urban edge could gm crops help feed africa ?
biofuel : hero to zero ?
background and analysis challenges for the food summit taking the pulse : eastern europe cost of food facts q & a : world food prices personal stories impact on six families radio 4 series our food , our future have your say are you worried by rising prices ?
top europe stories warning as climate deal emerges auschwitz death camp sign stolen dutch to release somali ' pirates ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened commuters hit by snow disruption auschwitz death camp sign stolen youtube post leads to movie deal why does n't scotland grind to a halt when it snows ?
auschwitz death camp sign stolen most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna frees us prisoner 35 years on commuters hit by snow disruption auschwitz death camp sign stolen uncertainty over copenhagen deal ' iranian cyber army ' hits twitter weekly world news quiz mumbai accused says he was framed f1 driver rescued from mountain ' fried egg ' may be impact crater deepest volcano caught on video most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened deepest undersea eruption ever filmed snow video from around the uk one-minute world news sky diving into an active volcano hollywood deal after youtube post dubai motor show gets into gear nicole kidman on nine troublesome snowfalls across europe on the frontline during afghanistan surge sir terry signs off from breakfast show most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis afghan wishes locals go head to head with governor in bbc debate it 's quiz time !
what on earth does an octopus do with a coconut ? dot.life would you use twitter to say your child had drowned ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 78,971 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- turning russia 's rich soil into riches british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages russian albanian serbian turkish ukrainian more page last updated at 07:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version turning russia 's rich soil into riches by daniel fisher bbc news , moscow heartlands farm has transformed the landscape there are almost 100 million acres of farm land lying deserted and unfarmed in one of the world 's most fertile areas - land that could feed millions of people .
this is not a doomsday scenario , it is a russian reality .
at a time when world food prices are causing hunger and poverty for millions of people around the world , it might at first seem criminal .
but those high prices could actually see the land once again bearing food for the world 's markets .
two british farmers from nottinghamshire have been breaking new ground in the southern " chernozem " -lrb- black earth -rrb- region of russia , by turning derelict land into prime wheat growing fields .
their introduction of modern farming methods has boosted production to as much as three times that of local farmers .
roll that out across russia and , without touching any virgin land , russia could be providing the world with up to 300m tonnes of cereals a year - making it the third largest cereal producer behind china and america .
there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing local farmer in 2002 richard willows , a former commodities trader , and colin hinchley , a farmer in his own right , came to russia and bought up land in the penza region that no-one was farming .
they set up heartlands farm and began to apply modern farming techniques with hi-tech equipment .
the results have been astounding - a serious eye opener not just for them , but for the local authorities as well .
colin hinchley took us around his 67,000-acre farm and , as we walked through a one of his fields of rippling green wheat , he explained how they did it .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement to russia with ploughs : the british farmers who are heading east " this land was just scrub land .
it 's not been farmed for eight or nine years , so we have to cut away the vegetation , the grass and all the trees and begin the cultivation process , " he said .
" the soil is very good and very consistent , considered one of the best growing mediums in the world .
and the large scale - this field is the size of an average farm in england .
" so far we have managed to double the yields , but this year we expect three times a normal russian yield - around six tonnes a hectare . "
heartlands have now been followed by many other foreign agro-industrial giants .
and not just foreigners but russians , too , have seen that there is money to be made not just by drilling in the ground but by cultivating it as well .
deserted landscape a short drive off the beaten track on the way back to penza showed a very different story .
at the side of the road we caught sight of a weather-beaten couple using a scythe to cut grass for their horse .
traditional farming methods continue in rural russia the wife told us : " there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing . "
" the bosses drank it all away , " her husband added .
there are productive farms run by the state but , with one of the lowest levels of investment in agriculture in the world and a lack of manpower , these are few and far between .
many of the villages where these people lived are often now deserted .
one village we drove through had only four wooden homes left out of 400 .
in the centre was a large ruined orthodox church rising up out of the waist-high weeds .
its frescos were all gone and its cupolas colonised by grass .
the only signs of life were the skylarks and cuckoos singing in the trees nearby .
venturing further outside the village we drove cross-country through what seemed like scrubland , but was in fact an abandoned field .
trees and meadow flowers competed with each other on the rolling hillside , and even a wild fox came close to see who had intruded on his peace and quiet .
the rumble of tractor wheels had clearly not been heard here for many years .
over the next three years the same fox will watch heartlands ' satellite-guided tractors transform his hunting ground into a wheat field to feed hungry people .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
the cost of food key stories food prices vary but crisis remains rich nations ' reneging ' over aid high food costs ' a global burden ' new e africa food crisis warning china to increase grain output pakistan 's poor hit as prices soar long era of cheap food is over features charting the impact of food price fluctuations around the world ethiopia 's ' green ' drought world wakes up to food challenge price rises sow hope for farmers in pictures : ethiopia famine world hunger 's urban edge could gm crops help feed africa ?
biofuel : hero to zero ?
background and analysis challenges for the food summit taking the pulse : eastern europe cost of food facts q & a : world food prices personal stories impact on six families radio 4 series our food , our future have your say are you worried by rising prices ?
top europe stories credit suisse offices are raided french row over bastille parade eu gives backing to ba alliance most popular stories now shared read watched / listened the battle for berlin 's gardens enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened finalist dies at world sauna event in finland north korea ' holds southern boat ' robbie williams ' marries in la ' couple are murdered in pakistan duchess tries to avoid bankruptcy the battle for berlin 's gardens stolen brides and life in exile afghan tribute to killed medics no 10 rejects child milk cut idea dozens killed in china landslides most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river one-minute world news flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse ' a river of mud ' in gansu province damascus sees new business horizons johnson and paxman go head to head great buddha 's ritual cleaning swim lessons on offer in garage how to counter a pirate attack most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 47,457 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- turning russia 's rich soil into riches british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages russian albanian serbian turkish ukrainian more page last updated at 07:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version turning russia 's rich soil into riches by daniel fisher bbc news , moscow heartlands farm has transformed the landscape there are almost 100 million acres of farm land lying deserted and unfarmed in one of the world 's most fertile areas - land that could feed millions of people .
this is not a doomsday scenario , it is a russian reality .
at a time when world food prices are causing hunger and poverty for millions of people around the world , it might at first seem criminal .
but those high prices could actually see the land once again bearing food for the world 's markets .
two british farmers from nottinghamshire have been breaking new ground in the southern " chernozem " -lrb- black earth -rrb- region of russia , by turning derelict land into prime wheat growing fields .
their introduction of modern farming methods has boosted production to as much as three times that of local farmers .
roll that out across russia and , without touching any virgin land , russia could be providing the world with up to 300m tonnes of cereals a year - making it the third largest cereal producer behind china and america .
there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing local farmer in 2002 richard willows , a former commodities trader , and colin hinchley , a farmer in his own right , came to russia and bought up land in the penza region that no-one was farming .
they set up heartlands farm and began to apply modern farming techniques with hi-tech equipment .
the results have been astounding - a serious eye opener not just for them , but for the local authorities as well .
colin hinchley took us around his 67,000-acre farm and , as we walked through a one of his fields of rippling green wheat , he explained how they did it .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement to russia with ploughs : the british farmers who are heading east " this land was just scrub land .
it 's not been farmed for eight or nine years , so we have to cut away the vegetation , the grass and all the trees and begin the cultivation process , " he said .
" the soil is very good and very consistent , considered one of the best growing mediums in the world .
and the large scale - this field is the size of an average farm in england .
" so far we have managed to double the yields , but this year we expect three times a normal russian yield - around six tonnes a hectare . "
heartlands have now been followed by many other foreign agro-industrial giants .
and not just foreigners but russians , too , have seen that there is money to be made not just by drilling in the ground but by cultivating it as well .
deserted landscape a short drive off the beaten track on the way back to penza showed a very different story .
at the side of the road we caught sight of a weather-beaten couple using a scythe to cut grass for their horse .
traditional farming methods continue in rural russia the wife told us : " there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing . "
" the bosses drank it all away , " her husband added .
there are productive farms run by the state but , with one of the lowest levels of investment in agriculture in the world and a lack of manpower , these are few and far between .
many of the villages where these people lived are often now deserted .
one village we drove through had only four wooden homes left out of 400 .
in the centre was a large ruined orthodox church rising up out of the waist-high weeds .
its frescos were all gone and its cupolas colonised by grass .
the only signs of life were the skylarks and cuckoos singing in the trees nearby .
venturing further outside the village we drove cross-country through what seemed like scrubland , but was in fact an abandoned field .
trees and meadow flowers competed with each other on the rolling hillside , and even a wild fox came close to see who had intruded on his peace and quiet .
the rumble of tractor wheels had clearly not been heard here for many years .
over the next three years the same fox will watch heartlands ' satellite-guided tractors transform his hunting ground into a wheat field to feed hungry people .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
the cost of food key stories food prices vary but crisis remains rich nations ' reneging ' over aid high food costs ' a global burden ' new e africa food crisis warning china to increase grain output pakistan 's poor hit as prices soar long era of cheap food is over features charting the impact of food price fluctuations around the world ethiopia 's ' green ' drought world wakes up to food challenge price rises sow hope for farmers in pictures : ethiopia famine world hunger 's urban edge could gm crops help feed africa ?
biofuel : hero to zero ?
background and analysis challenges for the food summit taking the pulse : eastern europe cost of food facts q & a : world food prices personal stories impact on six families radio 4 series our food , our future have your say are you worried by rising prices ?
top europe stories credit suisse offices are raided french row over bastille parade eu gives backing to ba alliance most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened hague test for campbell evidence indonesia cleric in terror arrest eurosceptic swiss count their blessings robbie williams weds ayda field turkey groom kills wedding guests mexico police hold own commander brazil 's ' rubber soldiers ' fight for pay flash floods hit central europe netanyahu faces flotilla inquiry computer boss quits in sex probe most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse unnamed page flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep residents ' ordeals in flood-hit europe one-minute world news ' i saw a few dirty looking stones ' freak weather havoc hits europe fleeing a village destroyed by floods ' a river of mud ' in gansu province rain triggers landslides and floods in china most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 44,171 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- turning russia 's rich soil into riches accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages russian polish serbian turkish ukrainian more page last updated at 07:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version turning russia 's rich soil into riches by daniel fisher bbc news , moscow heartlands farm has transformed the landscape there are almost 100 million acres of farm land lying deserted and unfarmed in one of the world 's most fertile areas - land that could feed millions of people .
this is not a doomsday scenario , it is a russian reality .
at a time when world food prices are causing hunger and poverty for millions of people around the world , it might at first seem criminal .
but those high prices could actually see the land once again bearing food for the world 's markets .
two british farmers from nottinghamshire have been breaking new ground in the southern " chernozem " -lrb- black earth -rrb- region of russia , by turning derelict land into prime wheat growing fields .
their introduction of modern farming methods has boosted production to as much as three times that of local farmers .
roll that out across russia and , without touching any virgin land , russia could be providing the world with up to 300m tonnes of cereals a year - making it the third largest cereal producer behind china and america .
there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing local farmer in 2002 richard willows , a former commodities trader , and colin hinchley , a farmer in his own right , came to russia and bought up land in the penza region that no-one was farming .
they set up heartlands farm and began to apply modern farming techniques with hi-tech equipment .
the results have been astounding - a serious eye opener not just for them , but for the local authorities as well .
colin hinchley took us around his 67,000-acre farm and , as we walked through a one of his fields of rippling green wheat , he explained how they did it .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement to russia with ploughs : the british farmers who are heading east " this land was just scrub land .
it 's not been farmed for eight or nine years , so we have to cut away the vegetation , the grass and all the trees and begin the cultivation process , " he said .
" the soil is very good and very consistent , considered one of the best growing mediums in the world .
and the large scale - this field is the size of an average farm in england .
" so far we have managed to double the yields , but this year we expect three times a normal russian yield - around six tonnes a hectare . "
heartlands have now been followed by many other foreign agro-industrial giants .
and not just foreigners but russians , too , have seen that there is money to be made not just by drilling in the ground but by cultivating it as well .
deserted landscape a short drive off the beaten track on the way back to penza showed a very different story .
at the side of the road we caught sight of a weather-beaten couple using a scythe to cut grass for their horse .
traditional farming methods continue in rural russia the wife told us : " there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing . "
" the bosses drank it all away , " her husband added .
there are productive farms run by the state but , with one of the lowest levels of investment in agriculture in the world and a lack of manpower , these are few and far between .
many of the villages where these people lived are often now deserted .
one village we drove through had only four wooden homes left out of 400 .
in the centre was a large ruined orthodox church rising up out of the waist-high weeds .
its frescos were all gone and its cupolas colonised by grass .
the only signs of life were the skylarks and cuckoos singing in the trees nearby .
venturing further outside the village we drove cross-country through what seemed like scrubland , but was in fact an abandoned field .
trees and meadow flowers competed with each other on the rolling hillside , and even a wild fox came close to see who had intruded on his peace and quiet .
the rumble of tractor wheels had clearly not been heard here for many years .
over the next three years the same fox will watch heartlands ' satellite-guided tractors transform his hunting ground into a wheat field to feed hungry people .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
the cost of food key stories food prices vary but crisis remains rich nations ' reneging ' over aid high food costs ' a global burden ' new e africa food crisis warning china to increase grain output pakistan 's poor hit as prices soar long era of cheap food is over features charting the impact of food price fluctuations around the world ethiopia 's ' green ' drought world wakes up to food challenge price rises sow hope for farmers in pictures : ethiopia famine world hunger 's urban edge could gm crops help feed africa ?
biofuel : hero to zero ?
background and analysis challenges for the food summit taking the pulse : eastern europe cost of food facts q & a : world food prices personal stories impact on six families radio 4 series our food , our future have your say are you worried by rising prices ?
top europe stories monitors to rule on kosovo vote un chief urges unity over hunger russia 's iran reactor ' delayed ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' shackleton 's whisky to be dug up starvation ' wiped out ' giant deer hypnosis has ' real ' brain effect actor edward woodward dies at 79 most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' actor edward woodward dies at 79 gaddafi preaches to rome beauties shackleton 's whisky to be dug up obama presses china over rights day in pictures greenpeace ' to put humans first ' the child of auschwitz 's kommandant tuna body shies from fishing ban gm to start loan repayments early most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ghost trees ' haunt ' london square mafia boss arrested in sicily one-minute world news obama on relations with china the pain of a ' forgotten australian ' actor edward woodward dies at 79 obama courts china on asia visit defra to challenge canal sale blyton ' not good enough ' for bbc ' forgotten ' react to rudd apology most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis deadly streets bbc on patrol with police in mexico 's murder capital day in pictures striking images from around the world roll call campaign to register world 's invisible children most popular now most popular now -pipe- 88,171 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- turning russia 's rich soil into riches british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages russian albanian serbian turkish ukrainian more page last updated at 07:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version turning russia 's rich soil into riches by daniel fisher bbc news , moscow heartlands farm has transformed the landscape there are almost 100 million acres of farm land lying deserted and unfarmed in one of the world 's most fertile areas - land that could feed millions of people .
this is not a doomsday scenario , it is a russian reality .
at a time when world food prices are causing hunger and poverty for millions of people around the world , it might at first seem criminal .
but those high prices could actually see the land once again bearing food for the world 's markets .
two british farmers from nottinghamshire have been breaking new ground in the southern " chernozem " -lrb- black earth -rrb- region of russia , by turning derelict land into prime wheat growing fields .
their introduction of modern farming methods has boosted production to as much as three times that of local farmers .
roll that out across russia and , without touching any virgin land , russia could be providing the world with up to 300m tonnes of cereals a year - making it the third largest cereal producer behind china and america .
there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing local farmer in 2002 richard willows , a former commodities trader , and colin hinchley , a farmer in his own right , came to russia and bought up land in the penza region that no-one was farming .
they set up heartlands farm and began to apply modern farming techniques with hi-tech equipment .
the results have been astounding - a serious eye opener not just for them , but for the local authorities as well .
colin hinchley took us around his 67,000-acre farm and , as we walked through a one of his fields of rippling green wheat , he explained how they did it .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement to russia with ploughs : the british farmers who are heading east " this land was just scrub land .
it 's not been farmed for eight or nine years , so we have to cut away the vegetation , the grass and all the trees and begin the cultivation process , " he said .
" the soil is very good and very consistent , considered one of the best growing mediums in the world .
and the large scale - this field is the size of an average farm in england .
" so far we have managed to double the yields , but this year we expect three times a normal russian yield - around six tonnes a hectare . "
heartlands have now been followed by many other foreign agro-industrial giants .
and not just foreigners but russians , too , have seen that there is money to be made not just by drilling in the ground but by cultivating it as well .
deserted landscape a short drive off the beaten track on the way back to penza showed a very different story .
at the side of the road we caught sight of a weather-beaten couple using a scythe to cut grass for their horse .
traditional farming methods continue in rural russia the wife told us : " there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing . "
" the bosses drank it all away , " her husband added .
there are productive farms run by the state but , with one of the lowest levels of investment in agriculture in the world and a lack of manpower , these are few and far between .
many of the villages where these people lived are often now deserted .
one village we drove through had only four wooden homes left out of 400 .
in the centre was a large ruined orthodox church rising up out of the waist-high weeds .
its frescos were all gone and its cupolas colonised by grass .
the only signs of life were the skylarks and cuckoos singing in the trees nearby .
venturing further outside the village we drove cross-country through what seemed like scrubland , but was in fact an abandoned field .
trees and meadow flowers competed with each other on the rolling hillside , and even a wild fox came close to see who had intruded on his peace and quiet .
the rumble of tractor wheels had clearly not been heard here for many years .
over the next three years the same fox will watch heartlands ' satellite-guided tractors transform his hunting ground into a wheat field to feed hungry people .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
the cost of food key stories food prices vary but crisis remains rich nations ' reneging ' over aid high food costs ' a global burden ' new e africa food crisis warning china to increase grain output pakistan 's poor hit as prices soar long era of cheap food is over features charting the impact of food price fluctuations around the world ethiopia 's ' green ' drought world wakes up to food challenge price rises sow hope for farmers in pictures : ethiopia famine world hunger 's urban edge could gm crops help feed africa ?
biofuel : hero to zero ?
background and analysis challenges for the food summit taking the pulse : eastern europe cost of food facts q & a : world food prices personal stories impact on six families radio 4 series our food , our future have your say are you worried by rising prices ?
top europe stories doubt cast on israel raid account poland publishes crash transcript trafigura toxic waste trial opens most popular stories now shared read watched / listened e-mail error ends up on road sign life inside the north korean bubble thank you !
cattle shown to align north-south licensed to sell bluebells most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened doubt cast on israel raid account bp prepares new bid to curb spill ex-us vp al gore splits from wife duchess ' drank ' in reporter sting senior al-qaeda leader ' killed ' judges shot dead at china court cage-fighter jailed for £ 53m raid why did german president resign ?
e-mail error ends up on road sign a space odyssey of the mind most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened israel releases ' footage of flotilla raid ' pakistan lake threatens to burst glimpses of real north korean rural life israeli navy storms gaza aid ship one-minute world news storm plagues obama 's memorial speech man jailed over â £ 53m cash robbery african football shorts : the sex worker north korea 's version of the internet israeli army releases ' flotilla footage ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis horst , why ?
german president 's shock resignation a blow to merkel gomp / arts the woman who brought giant spiders to london day in pictures a selection of pictures from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 93,600 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- turning russia 's rich soil into riches accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages russian polish serbian turkish ukrainian more page last updated at 07:43 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:43 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version turning russia 's rich soil into riches by daniel fisher bbc news , moscow heartlands farm has transformed the landscape there are almost 100 million acres of farm land lying deserted and unfarmed in one of the world 's most fertile areas - land that could feed millions of people .
this is not a doomsday scenario , it is a russian reality .
at a time when world food prices are causing hunger and poverty for millions of people around the world , it might at first seem criminal .
but those high prices could actually see the land once again bearing food for the world 's markets .
two british farmers from nottinghamshire have been breaking new ground in the southern " chernozem " -lrb- black earth -rrb- region of russia , by turning derelict land into prime wheat growing fields .
their introduction of modern farming methods has boosted production to as much as three times that of local farmers .
roll that out across russia and , without touching any virgin land , russia could be providing the world with up to 300m tonnes of cereals a year - making it the third largest cereal producer behind china and america .
there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing local farmer in 2002 richard willows , a former commodities trader , and colin hinchley , a farmer in his own right , came to russia and bought up land in the penza region that no-one was farming .
they set up heartlands farm and began to apply modern farming techniques with hi-tech equipment .
the results have been astounding - a serious eye opener not just for them , but for the local authorities as well .
colin hinchley took us around his 67,000-acre farm and , as we walked through a one of his fields of rippling green wheat , he explained how they did it .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement to russia with ploughs : the british farmers who are heading east " this land was just scrub land .
it 's not been farmed for eight or nine years , so we have to cut away the vegetation , the grass and all the trees and begin the cultivation process , " he said .
" the soil is very good and very consistent , considered one of the best growing mediums in the world .
and the large scale - this field is the size of an average farm in england .
" so far we have managed to double the yields , but this year we expect three times a normal russian yield - around six tonnes a hectare . "
heartlands have now been followed by many other foreign agro-industrial giants .
and not just foreigners but russians , too , have seen that there is money to be made not just by drilling in the ground but by cultivating it as well .
deserted landscape a short drive off the beaten track on the way back to penza showed a very different story .
at the side of the road we caught sight of a weather-beaten couple using a scythe to cut grass for their horse .
traditional farming methods continue in rural russia the wife told us : " there used to be a great collective farm here with lots of tractors and people , but now there is nothing . "
" the bosses drank it all away , " her husband added .
there are productive farms run by the state but , with one of the lowest levels of investment in agriculture in the world and a lack of manpower , these are few and far between .
many of the villages where these people lived are often now deserted .
one village we drove through had only four wooden homes left out of 400 .
in the centre was a large ruined orthodox church rising up out of the waist-high weeds .
its frescos were all gone and its cupolas colonised by grass .
the only signs of life were the skylarks and cuckoos singing in the trees nearby .
venturing further outside the village we drove cross-country through what seemed like scrubland , but was in fact an abandoned field .
trees and meadow flowers competed with each other on the rolling hillside , and even a wild fox came close to see who had intruded on his peace and quiet .
the rumble of tractor wheels had clearly not been heard here for many years .
over the next three years the same fox will watch heartlands ' satellite-guided tractors transform his hunting ground into a wheat field to feed hungry people .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
the cost of food key stories food prices vary but crisis remains rich nations ' reneging ' over aid high food costs ' a global burden ' new e africa food crisis warning china to increase grain output pakistan 's poor hit as prices soar long era of cheap food is over features charting the impact of food price fluctuations around the world ethiopia 's ' green ' drought world wakes up to food challenge price rises sow hope for farmers in pictures : ethiopia famine world hunger 's urban edge could gm crops help feed africa ?
biofuel : hero to zero ?
background and analysis challenges for the food summit taking the pulse : eastern europe cost of food facts q & a : world food prices personal stories impact on six families radio 4 series our food , our future have your say are you worried by rising prices ?
top europe stories uk tightens airport security bomb alert shuts german airport emissions targets set for delay most popular stories now shared read watched / listened trials spark hope of pill for ms air france may bar obese people rare glimpse of the crystal cave how did quakers conquer the british sweet shop ?
senegal offers land to haitians most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama warns senate on healthcare air france may bar obese people wildlife photo stripped of award starbucks sees its profits triple mammals ' floated to madagascar ' how did quakers conquer the british sweet shop ?
virginia suspect ' hid explosives ' us diverts 4,000 troops to haiti man who attacked intruder freed manchester united debt hits £ 716m most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened woman rescued after week under rubble children rescued from the rubble new video of orphanage hit by quake vow on ' affordable ' malaria drugs baby is born amid haiti 's ruins india visa changes strangle business highlights from the tv awards one-minute world news italy 's ' real ' bolognese campaign cctv shows quake panic in bakery most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis patronage politics philippine massacre exposes political underworld sights unseen training blind people to take photos graining it how sugar made tycoons out of a religious sect most popular now most popular now -pipe- 26,686 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- coastal resorts given £ 10m boost bbc news / england graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 07:54 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:54 uk coastal resorts given £ 10m boost three english coastal resorts are to get a share of a £ 10m grant to increase and update their tourist attractions .
blackpool is to be given £ 4m to build a 22,000-seater outdoor arena on the seafront to showcase cultural events , and redesign part of its promenade .
nearly £ 4m will be spent improving dover castle and the wartime tunnels beneath it , and developing a cable car .
torbay will get about £ 2.2m of the government grant to develop two schemes in the english riviera geopark .
ten new artist studios , a gallery space and a refurbished visitor centre will be created and access to berry head in brixham will be improved . "
this will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy " hazel blears the bleriot monument in dover , which marks the first cross-channel flight , will also be refurbished with part of the money .
communities secretary hazel blears said : " english coastal towns can look forward to the summer trade that comes with more and more people rediscovering all that these places have to offer for a great holiday or weekend break .
" this -lsb- funding -rsb- will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy . "
the grant is part of the government 's sea change programme which will see seaside resorts given a share of £ 15m each year between 2008 and 2011 .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : blackpool 's improved prom to open -lrb- 20 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire -rrb- blackpool needs ' posher ' tourists -lrb- 10 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire -rrb- blue flag flies high on ' riviera ' -lrb- 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon -rrb- tourism potential is ' sky high ' -lrb- 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon -rrb- torbay pines for ' riviera ' future -lrb- 11 jan 08 -pipe- devon -rrb- run-down port town ' needs more ' -lrb- 11 mar 07 -pipe- kent -rrb- related internet links visit blackpool english riviera white cliffs country communities and local government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- coastal resorts given £ 10m boost accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:54 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:54 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coastal resorts given £ 10m boost three english coastal resorts are to get a share of a £ 10m grant to increase and update their tourist attractions .
blackpool is to be given £ 4m to build a 22,000-seater outdoor arena on the seafront to showcase cultural events , and redesign part of its promenade .
nearly £ 4m will be spent improving dover castle and the wartime tunnels beneath it , and developing a cable car .
torbay will get about £ 2.2m of the government grant to develop two schemes in the english riviera geopark .
ten new artist studios , a gallery space and a refurbished visitor centre will be created and access to berry head in brixham will be improved .
this will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy hazel blears the bleriot monument in dover , which marks the first cross-channel flight , will also be refurbished with part of the money .
communities secretary hazel blears said : " english coastal towns can look forward to the summer trade that comes with more and more people rediscovering all that these places have to offer for a great holiday or weekend break .
" this -lsb- funding -rsb- will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy . "
the grant is part of the government 's sea change programme which will see seaside resorts given a share of £ 15m each year between 2008 and 2011 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also blackpool 's improved prom to open 20 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blackpool needs ' posher ' tourists 10 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blue flag flies high on ' riviera ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon tourism potential is ' sky high ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon torbay pines for ' riviera ' future 11 jan 08 -pipe- devon run-down port town ' needs more ' 11 mar 07 -pipe- kent related internet links visit blackpool english riviera white cliffs country communities and local government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories labour man calls queen ' vermin ' n-dubz pair to help rape inquiry severed hand woman dies most popular stories now shared read watched / listened meditation ' eases heart disease ' age of cyber warfare is ' dawning ' ' female viagra ' discovery claim two kite surfers jump over pier tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened man ' killed wife during a dream ' ' ex nazi ' charged with 58 murders age of cyber warfare is ' dawning ' swat taliban chief ' has escaped ' tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' somali pirates free spanish boat ' female viagra ' discovery claim two kite surfers jump over pier mexico 's juarez on path to anarchy germany arrests top rwanda rebels most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened conjoined twins op ' successful ' antarctic ice traps cruise ship kite surfers ' huge jump over pier mexico 's most dangerous city one-minute world news nasa 's atlantis shuttle blasts off us and china agree to ' work together ' army 's new night vision equipment scott-heron back with new album record breaking ' arrow ' sky dive most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis centre stage how the velvet revolution was led from a theatre censored chinese uses media to control obama coverage tech solutions ?
how technology could help us limit climate change most popular now most popular now -pipe- 85,300 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- coastal resorts given £ 10m boost british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:54 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:54 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coastal resorts given £ 10m boost three english coastal resorts are to get a share of a £ 10m grant to increase and update their tourist attractions .
blackpool is to be given £ 4m to build a 22,000-seater outdoor arena on the seafront to showcase cultural events , and redesign part of its promenade .
nearly £ 4m will be spent improving dover castle and the wartime tunnels beneath it , and developing a cable car .
torbay will get about £ 2.2m of the government grant to develop two schemes in the english riviera geopark .
ten new artist studios , a gallery space and a refurbished visitor centre will be created and access to berry head in brixham will be improved .
this will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy hazel blears the bleriot monument in dover , which marks the first cross-channel flight , will also be refurbished with part of the money .
communities secretary hazel blears said : " english coastal towns can look forward to the summer trade that comes with more and more people rediscovering all that these places have to offer for a great holiday or weekend break .
" this -lsb- funding -rsb- will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy . "
the grant is part of the government 's sea change programme which will see seaside resorts given a share of £ 15m each year between 2008 and 2011 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also blackpool 's improved prom to open 20 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blackpool needs ' posher ' tourists 10 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blue flag flies high on ' riviera ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon tourism potential is ' sky high ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon torbay pines for ' riviera ' future 11 jan 08 -pipe- devon run-down port town ' needs more ' 11 mar 07 -pipe- kent related internet links visit blackpool english riviera white cliffs country communities and local government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened russia country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened man grows pea plant inside lung relic of ' original earth ' exposed dying girl photographs criticised lindsay lohan judge steps aside bin laden chef handed jail term desperation as pakistan flood misery grows speedy solution to rubik 's cube teaching philosophy with spider-man vodafone backs down in android row russia ' has missiles ' in abkhazia most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened stinging jellyfish invade spanish coast inside obama 's favourite burger joint full flash video on phones saudi women photograph their world britain 's ' oldest house ' discovered ' digi-bike ' aims to reduce crime one-minute world news women dice with death on m6 russia remembers kursk 10 years on princess anne on olympics and ageing most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 74,371 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- coastal resorts given £ 10m boost british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:54 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:54 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coastal resorts given £ 10m boost three english coastal resorts are to get a share of a £ 10m grant to increase and update their tourist attractions .
blackpool is to be given £ 4m to build a 22,000-seater outdoor arena on the seafront to showcase cultural events , and redesign part of its promenade .
nearly £ 4m will be spent improving dover castle and the wartime tunnels beneath it , and developing a cable car .
torbay will get about £ 2.2m of the government grant to develop two schemes in the english riviera geopark .
ten new artist studios , a gallery space and a refurbished visitor centre will be created and access to berry head in brixham will be improved .
this will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy hazel blears the bleriot monument in dover , which marks the first cross-channel flight , will also be refurbished with part of the money .
communities secretary hazel blears said : " english coastal towns can look forward to the summer trade that comes with more and more people rediscovering all that these places have to offer for a great holiday or weekend break .
" this -lsb- funding -rsb- will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy . "
the grant is part of the government 's sea change programme which will see seaside resorts given a share of £ 15m each year between 2008 and 2011 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also blackpool 's improved prom to open 20 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blackpool needs ' posher ' tourists 10 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blue flag flies high on ' riviera ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon tourism potential is ' sky high ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon torbay pines for ' riviera ' future 11 jan 08 -pipe- devon run-down port town ' needs more ' 11 mar 07 -pipe- kent related internet links visit blackpool english riviera white cliffs country communities and local government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened taliban targets : women , children , foreigners iraqi asylum seekers struggle to survive in sweden most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened spectators killed at us car race ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam in pictures : zurich 's dance parade taliban targets : women , children , foreigners celebrations as princess turns 60 russia ban on grain export begins baseball cup moved after shooting four killed in ny state shooting lebanon ' kills militant leader ' prince to lead tributes on vj day most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened unnamed page ethiopia 's amazing rock churches one-minute world news the greenest music festival ever ?
how to get a grip on your inbox corden and walliams kiss for charity schoolboy builds business empire disease fear for flood-hit pakistan obama defends new york mosque plan surgeons rebuild crocodile 's face most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 32,043 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- coastal resorts given £ 10m boost accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:54 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:54 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coastal resorts given £ 10m boost three english coastal resorts are to get a share of a £ 10m grant to increase and update their tourist attractions .
blackpool is to be given £ 4m to build a 22,000-seater outdoor arena on the seafront to showcase cultural events , and redesign part of its promenade .
nearly £ 4m will be spent improving dover castle and the wartime tunnels beneath it , and developing a cable car .
torbay will get about £ 2.2m of the government grant to develop two schemes in the english riviera geopark .
ten new artist studios , a gallery space and a refurbished visitor centre will be created and access to berry head in brixham will be improved .
this will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy hazel blears the bleriot monument in dover , which marks the first cross-channel flight , will also be refurbished with part of the money .
communities secretary hazel blears said : " english coastal towns can look forward to the summer trade that comes with more and more people rediscovering all that these places have to offer for a great holiday or weekend break .
" this -lsb- funding -rsb- will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy . "
the grant is part of the government 's sea change programme which will see seaside resorts given a share of £ 15m each year between 2008 and 2011 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also blackpool 's improved prom to open 20 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blackpool needs ' posher ' tourists 10 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blue flag flies high on ' riviera ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon tourism potential is ' sky high ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon torbay pines for ' riviera ' future 11 jan 08 -pipe- devon run-down port town ' needs more ' 11 mar 07 -pipe- kent related internet links visit blackpool english riviera white cliffs country communities and local government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories final pleas for death row briton ' peacemaker ' dies after attack met office warning of heavy snow most popular stories now shared read watched / listened china opens ' women only ' car park hike in diabetes limb amputations china executions shrouded in secrecy pakistanis recount horror of suicide attacks music therapy for tinnitus hope most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened us vows to hunt down jet plotters final pleas for death row briton china executions shrouded in secrecy us man ' arrested ' in north korea gay couple marries in argentina how are air travellers screened ?
china opens ' women only ' car park avatar tops christmas box office tech changes ' outstrip ' netbooks children dead in us building fire most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened chinese general 's ancient tomb ' found ' passenger tackles terror suspect mass whale deaths in new zealand us vows to pursue plane plotters china blamed for fall in black bears thousands evacuated in argentina floods death row briton ' incoherent ' close-up : indonesia 's jamu ladies one-minute world news passengers describe flight 253 incident most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis pain and fear pakistanis describe terror of year of attacks death sentence the secretive system of state executions in china flight checks how are air travellers screened for security ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 25,571 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- coastal resorts given £ 10m boost british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:54 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:54 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coastal resorts given £ 10m boost three english coastal resorts are to get a share of a £ 10m grant to increase and update their tourist attractions .
blackpool is to be given £ 4m to build a 22,000-seater outdoor arena on the seafront to showcase cultural events , and redesign part of its promenade .
nearly £ 4m will be spent improving dover castle and the wartime tunnels beneath it , and developing a cable car .
torbay will get about £ 2.2m of the government grant to develop two schemes in the english riviera geopark .
ten new artist studios , a gallery space and a refurbished visitor centre will be created and access to berry head in brixham will be improved .
this will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy hazel blears the bleriot monument in dover , which marks the first cross-channel flight , will also be refurbished with part of the money .
communities secretary hazel blears said : " english coastal towns can look forward to the summer trade that comes with more and more people rediscovering all that these places have to offer for a great holiday or weekend break .
" this -lsb- funding -rsb- will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy . "
the grant is part of the government 's sea change programme which will see seaside resorts given a share of £ 15m each year between 2008 and 2011 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also blackpool 's improved prom to open 20 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blackpool needs ' posher ' tourists 10 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blue flag flies high on ' riviera ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon tourism potential is ' sky high ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon torbay pines for ' riviera ' future 11 jan 08 -pipe- devon run-down port town ' needs more ' 11 mar 07 -pipe- kent related internet links visit blackpool english riviera white cliffs country communities and local government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened the korean american success story scan uncovers 40 smuggled snakes most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened gaddafi forces push rebels back ivorian fighters head to capital s asia leaders watching world cup syrians await president 's address japan to scrap stricken reactors spurs in 2012 stadium court fight live : libya and mid-east crisis royal weddings of the past berlusconi visits migrant island tomlinson ' was calm before push ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened noisy trousers create jeans beat japan 's emperor visits tsunami victims security tight at cricket world cup shares in tokyo electric tumble a good time to visit the middle east ?
would arming libyan rebels help ?
flooding hits thailand killing 11 one-minute world news driver 's handy umbrella invention olga kotelko : the 91-year-old track star most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 81,886 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- coastal resorts given £ 10m boost british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:54 gmt , friday , 1 august 2008 08:54 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coastal resorts given £ 10m boost three english coastal resorts are to get a share of a £ 10m grant to increase and update their tourist attractions .
blackpool is to be given £ 4m to build a 22,000-seater outdoor arena on the seafront to showcase cultural events , and redesign part of its promenade .
nearly £ 4m will be spent improving dover castle and the wartime tunnels beneath it , and developing a cable car .
torbay will get about £ 2.2m of the government grant to develop two schemes in the english riviera geopark .
ten new artist studios , a gallery space and a refurbished visitor centre will be created and access to berry head in brixham will be improved .
this will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy hazel blears the bleriot monument in dover , which marks the first cross-channel flight , will also be refurbished with part of the money .
communities secretary hazel blears said : " english coastal towns can look forward to the summer trade that comes with more and more people rediscovering all that these places have to offer for a great holiday or weekend break .
" this -lsb- funding -rsb- will help these towns prosper further , as more attractions become available for both tourists and residents to enjoy . "
the grant is part of the government 's sea change programme which will see seaside resorts given a share of £ 15m each year between 2008 and 2011 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also blackpool 's improved prom to open 20 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blackpool needs ' posher ' tourists 10 jul 08 -pipe- lancashire blue flag flies high on ' riviera ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon tourism potential is ' sky high ' 05 jun 08 -pipe- devon torbay pines for ' riviera ' future 11 jan 08 -pipe- devon run-down port town ' needs more ' 11 mar 07 -pipe- kent related internet links visit blackpool english riviera white cliffs country communities and local government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories ex-mi6 man admits secrecy breach tests on flats fire arrest woman wave hub project ' is going ahead ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened going to harvard from your own bedroom libya 's rivals : the military balance ' drugs to the brain ' breakthrough staff push tablet computers into the workplace most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened china blamed for gmail disruption what chance of a ' big one ' in tokyo ?
early-warning diabetes test hope most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened gaddafi troops retreat after air strikes footage of moment tsunami hit japan woman tricked into the sex industry one-minute world news town devastated by japan tsunami gaddafi building damaged by missile most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 31,157 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
