interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living in germany listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour a youth orchestra from brazil listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour a full dose of schumann and beethoven listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers dw-tv europe live glaubenssachen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds gregor zubicky – artistic manager of the swedish chamber orchestra listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz our quiz this month asks about the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live motor mobil - das automagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress ' hate destroyer ' employs nail polish remover and paint against prejudice listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live sondersendung we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live # programtext # listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live pulse listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live learning by ear listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour mco residency in north-rhine westphalia listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living in germany adopting a child in germany is n't easy , so many go abroad listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live learning by ear listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air artistic happenings across europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round six picks dw sports sizes up the round six match-ups in the bundesliga with a dose of cautious optimism .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report euro 2012 live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's euro 2012 qualifier against austria : june 3 , 18:15 utc © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here 9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress as south sudan independence nears , threat of death is constant listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live sondersendung we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 - the cultural magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week miriam makeba , aka mama africa - died on nov .
10 , 2008 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds gregor zubicky – artistic manager of the swedish chamber orchestra listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living in germany listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz our quiz this month asks about the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living in germany listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz our quiz this month asks about the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live music this week listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz our quiz this month asks about the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live pulse listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live european business week cars in detroit - crime in italy - music online - morocco 's mega-port listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour halle 1 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live radio d listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz our quiz this month asks about the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : uk prisoners to get the vote postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress teaching democracy in yemen listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live world in progress listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9797 dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz our quiz this month asks about the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet venice 's sea wall , fish conflict-mediation , industrial agriculture , rwandan methane listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round six picks dw sports sizes up the round six match-ups in the bundesliga with a dose of cautious optimism .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the voodoo we do dw 's experts resort to a mixture of voodoo and chicken bones to predict week eleven 's results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg players bremen and peru 's claudio pizarro talks on becoming the top foreign scorer in bundesliga history .
watch the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : uk prisoners to get the vote postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week four picks dw sports sizes up the week four match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet the eu at cancun , solar bottlenecks , tuna wars and a tiger breakthrough listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe the inside take on european affairs 30.07.2011 listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum consumer electronics at ifa berlin , german virtual synagogues and ars electronica 2010 in linz listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet gunning for forests listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live pulse listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply . dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live glaubenssachen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live immigration france plans to strip recent immigrants of their french citizenship if they commit serious crimes .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown - special we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe the inside take on european affairs 30.07.2011 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? dw-tv europe live people and politics - the political magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week plans , prices and property listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel passau videobox passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - the international talk show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress broadcasting independent news to sealed-off north korea listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress broadcasting independent news to sealed-off north korea listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living in germany listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live radio d listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 2 listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living in germany listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape - the health show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet money in whaling and human-wildlife diseases listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
panini albums women 's soccer gets its first panini albums , forty years after the sticker-collecting hobby began .
watch the video education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living in germany listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live spectrum consumer electronics at ifa berlin , german virtual synagogues and ars electronica 2010 in linz listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here 9801 dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft - das wissenschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live world in progress listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live pulse listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet coy eels and precocious boars listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany hits in germany at eurosonic 2011 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain , germany trade criticisms in growing financial row großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : britain 's brown has differing views on tackling the financial crisis from merkel angela merkel may have shrugged off the apparent snub of not being invited to monday ’ s mini-summit between britain and france but it is unlikely that new comments from the british government will be dismissed as easily . the simmering war of words between berlin and downing street heated up thursday as both merkel and prime minister gordon brown prepared to fly to brussels for a crucial eu summit .
responding to claims by german finance minister peer steinbrueck that britain 's conversion from economic and financial prudence to heavy state borrowing was " crass keynesianism " of " breathtaking " proportions , representatives of brown 's government said that germany 's ability to respond effectively to the global economic downturn was being hampered by domestic politics .
" they are arguing in germany about the right way to go , " schools minister ed balls told sky tv .
" once the politics in germany is resolved they will be acting with us too .
" we will find germany joining the consensus of countries around the world who know that action now for our economies is the right thing to do , " balls added .
brown himself failed to distance himself from the growing row during a radio interview given shortly before he departed for the eu summit .
alluding to the confusion and division in the german government over what action to take , brown told london 's lbc radio : " i do not really want to get involved in what is clearly internal german politics here , because they have a coalition in germany with different political parties .
" the important thing is that almost every country around the world is doing what we have been doing , in terms of supporting ailing banks and providing fiscal stimulus , " he added .
not taking such action would mean " failing in the role of government , " he said .
" the german government is investing more , they 've just announced a fiscal expansion so that they can invest in public works , and helping their banks and doing these sorts of things , " brown said .
steinbrueck 's vat jibes prompt testy response bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck says britain 's debt is set to sky-rocket steinbrueck criticized the 2.5 percent cut in value added tax -lrb- vat -rrb- , to 15 percent , introduced by the british government from december 1 in an outspoken interview with us magazine newsweek .
" all this will do is raise britain 's debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off , " steinbrueck said , echoing criticism leveled at brown by the conservative opposition in britain .
however , government sources in london said it was germany which was " out of step " with other european nations on the need to go beyond the massive bail-out packages agreed in november .
but it was " unusual " for a member of a foreign government to interfere so openly in another state 's affairs , they said .
government sources added that brown 's administration was not concerned about the risk of a potential rift with germany , saying they were " relaxed " about steinbrueck 's comments .
" we have a good working relationship with -lrb- german chancellor -rrb- angela merkel , " a source at brown 's downing street office told reuters .
" we are working closely with the german government .
it is recognized that world opinion is almost universally in favor of the need for a fiscal stimulus . "
germany unwilling to take similar steps bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " three wise men " announced their plans to save the economy speculation of a rift increased this week after merkel - in charge of europe 's biggest economy - was left out of the london summit on monday involving brown , french president nicolas sarkozy and european commission chief jose manuel barroso .
those three firmly endorsed a 200 billion euro -lrb- $ 262.5 billion -rrb- stimulus proposal for the european union .
barroso said it would be unreasonable to think about any plan without the active participation of germany .
but steinbrueck , on the social democrat side of germany 's coalition government , has said there will be no additional economic package before easter .
conservative merkel says she will review the situation in the new year . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up .
-lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- eu leaders unite on stimulus package - without germany top european politicians and business leaders met in london to discuss a proposed 200-billion-euro stimulus plan , ahead of this week 's bloc-wide summit .
but germany , europe 's largest economy , was n't represented .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks in brussels -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top german 100 listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina scotland continues to strive for independence transnistria suffers from stalemate violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it ! - the motor magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week bankruptcy , batteries and beer listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse taking the pulse of youth culture listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round six picks dw sports sizes up the round six match-ups in the bundesliga with a dose of cautious optimism .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil - das automagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour halle 1 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dw-tv europe live tomorrow today - the science magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live pulse taking the pulse of youth culture listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear soundscape 10 dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here 9799 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : highlights from melt festival 2011 !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's prison special here feedback have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live world in progress listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback was it appropriate for a suicide to be shown on television ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de health -pipe- 11.12.2008 tv suicide shines spotlight on thorny euthanasia question großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : craig ewert said he wanted to go on , but could n't the screening of a tv documentary in the uk showing a man being assisted in ending his own life has further enflamed debate over the controversial act of assisted suicide . after the airing on sky tv of the film , " the right to die ? " by canada 's oscar-winning director john zaritsky , british prime minister gordon brown called on the media to avoid " sensationalism . "
" i think it is very important that these issues are dealt with sensitively and without sensationalism and i hope broadcasters remember that they have a wider responsibility to the general public , " brown said in parliament , adding that he opposed legislation on assisted suicide , which is illegal in britain .
" these are very difficult issues and we should all remember that at the heart of any single individual case are families and people in very difficult circumstances who have to make for themselves very difficult choices , " the prime minister said ..
his comments came after sky defended the screening of the documentary in its real lives series .
the film was aired on wednesday , dec .
10 .
man died to avoid ' torture ' the film is a record of the assisted suicide in september , 2006 , of 59-year-old craig ewert , a us university professor who lived in britain , and who allowed zaritsky to film his death .
ewert suffered from motor-neurone disease and chose to die rather than endure the " torture " he feared from his degenerative condition .
the father-of-two is seen drinking a mixture of sedatives and turning off his own ventilator using his teeth .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesrat has called for organized assisted suicide to be outlawed the assisted suicide was conducted at the dignitas clinic in zurich .
ewert 's wife mary was by his side .
assisted suicide has been allowed in switzerland since the 1940s if performed by a non-physician who has no vested interest in the death .
" this is an issue that more and more people are confronting and this documentary is an informative , articulate and educated insight into the decisions some people have to make , " said a spokeswoman for the sky program .
church , media denounce film church groups , anti-euthanasia organizations and media watchdogs criticized the film 's airing .
" it 's a slippery slope .
the danger is that we start to believe in a story that there is such a thing as a life not worth living , " said peter saunders , director of campaign group care not killing .
john beyer of media watchdog mediawatch uk said : " i 'm not sure whether the moment of death is something for television but the real concern is whether this is influencing the public in a way that it should n't be . "
kusch controversy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roger kusch acts as a ' suicide counsellor ' snips of the film have made their way to online video content web site youtube , as well as that of german daily newspaper bild , which gave a brief run-down of what to expect from the film .
german politicians , church leaders and social workers have been angered of late by the stance of former hamburg justice minister and euthanasia advocate roger kusch .
kusch does not involve himself in the act of assisting suicide , which is illegal in germany .
but he does advertise his services as a " suicide counsellor , " providing advice and support for those seeking to die , which is not illegal .
german politicians are considering closing what they see as a legal loophole .
in july , the bundesrat , germany 's upper house of parliament , called for " organized assisted suicide " or " commercialized assisted suicide " to be outlawed .
the lower house , the bundestag , is still mulling the legal and ethical implications of the issue .
in the eu , the practice has been legalized in the netherlands and belgium , while french law regulates the " right to die , " which empowers the terminally ill to refuse life-extending treatments .
according to figures released last month , between 2001 and 2004 , 91 percent of those who died with help from the swiss firm dignitas were foreigners , mostly from germany , france and britain . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de survey : many german doctors support assisted suicide a new survey shows that a surprising number of german doctors have no moral qualms about assisted suicide .
a full 35 percent would support rules allowing doctors to help terminally ill patients end their lives .
-lrb- 24.11.2008 -rrb- landmark assisted suicide case begins in uk in a case which could affect the european convention on human rights , a woman with multiple sclerosis has launched a bid in london 's high court to clarify the law on assisted suicide .
-lrb- 02.10.2008 -rrb- merkel remains strongly opposed to assisted suicide german chancellor angela merkel has spoken out in the strongest terms against euthanasia as the heated debate over a former hamburg government official 's involvement in the assisted suicide of a pensioner gathers pace .
-lrb- 03.07.2008 -rrb- former hamburg justice minister helped woman kill herself a former justice minister of the city of hamburg and long-time advocate of assisted suicide has reported that he helped a 79-year-old woman kill herself .
she was not ill , but afraid of having to go to a nursing home .
-lrb- 30.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic assisted suicide raises concerns in the uk -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - the globalization program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures the prison everyone wants to stay in norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 discord flares at climate talks as un chief urges unity großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un secretary general ban ki-moon called on the eu and us to lead on climate issues un secretary-general ban ki-moon urged rich and poor nations to agree on new steps to fight global warming , telling a 189-nation conference that europe and the us must take the lead in avoiding a climate " catastrophe . " ban warned against " backsliding " on clean-air targets just as eu leaders in brussels considered a watered-down plan for making industry buy permits to emit carbon dioxide , the gas most blamed for global warming .
europe 's apparent wavering stoked discord at the un climate conference , part of efforts to reach a global deal next december to reduce emissions of gases emitted when fossil fuels are burned .
guyana 's president , bharrat jagdeo , said he feared the world 's economic downturn would divert money and attention from fighting climate change as countries seek to protect jobs and industries .
" if europe sends a signal that it can make deep commitments only in prosperous times , what are the developing countries going to say , including china ? "
jagdeo told delegates gathered in poznan , poland , for the last two days of this year 's main un climate meeting .
emissions have been rising most rapidly in emerging economies such as china and india .
in bargaining for a global deal , developing nations are under pressure to curb emissions in return for pledges of new cuts by industrialized countries .
ban urged governments to treat the global financial crisis as an opportunity to speed investment in clean technology .
he evoked the new deal , a massive public works programme launched by us president franklin d roosevelt during the great depression .
" we need a green new deal , " he told government leaders as they began two days of high-level talks .
" this is a deal that works for all nations , rich as well as poor . "
un chief calls on eu , us for leadership on climate issues bildunterschrift : environmentalists have also called on obama to take the lead on fighting climate change he singled out the eu and us president-elect barack obama as leaders in the push for a new , broader pact to replace the kyoto protocol , a treaty that ties rich nations to emissions cuts and expires in 2012 .
" what we need , today , is leadership , " ban told delegates .
" we look for that leadership from the european union . "
pressure group oxfam international accused france , which currently chairs the eu , of pandering " to industry scare-mongering " and to countries resisting more ambitious emissions trading plans such as poland , italy and germany .
nathalie kosciusko-morizet , france 's state secretary of ecology , told reporters that the eu 's overall goal - cutting the 27-nation bloc 's emissions 20 per cent from 1990 levels by 2020 - remains firm .
with the rest of the world waiting for obama to take office , no major breakthroughs were expected at the two-week conference that began december 1 .
delegates reached one goal wednesday when they agreed on a work programme to help governments chart the way through substantive negotiations next year .
" we are not standing still , " german environment minister sigmar gabriel said .
but yvo de boer , the top un climate official , made plain that progress toward a grand bargain has been slow and the key disputes remain unsolved .
" distrust and suspicion have haunted these talks for much too long , " he told delegates .
" this is your opportunity to move on . "
fund for the developing world a sticking point bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the money is there to help climate refugees but how to give it is in question a key dispute at this year 's conference involves how to activate a fund for projects to protect poor countries against the effects of climate change such as rising sea levels and expanding deserts .
at issue are oversight rules for distributing money from the fund .
" we are very disappointed with the manner that some of our partners are burying us in red tape , " said apisai ielemia , president of the island nation of tuvalu .
ban urged governments to move beyond the blame game and start making a deal .
" yes , the economic crisis is serious .
yet when it comes to climate change , the stakes are far higher , " he said .
" let us save ourselves from catastrophe and usher in a truly sustainable world . " dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de close , but no cigar on eu climate deal the european union is on the verge of a climate package that would boost renewable energy , but italy blocked the deal .
un climate change negotiations start this week in poland .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- un global warming talks weighed down by financial crisis a new push to combat global warming at a un climate change conference in poland is being overshadowed by the world 's economic downturn and rising greenhouse-gas emissions in rich and emerging nations .
-lrb- 01.12.2008 -rrb- eu fails to agree on climate change before un summit just ahead of a major un summit on climate change in poland , eu states are struggling to agree on their approach .
the host country is n't the only member state that finds it hard to stick to earlier agreements .
-lrb- 27.11.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell - das magazin aus brüssel we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress foreign doctors braving libyan conflict to care for patients in nalut listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live pulse listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round six picks dw sports sizes up the round six match-ups in the bundesliga with a dose of cautious optimism .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 11.12.2008 bayern munich claim group lead with 3-2 win at lyon großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klose raised his career total to 21 strikes in europe led by striker franck ribery , bayern munich shot to the top of champions league group f with a 3-2 victory at olympique lyon .
now they 're assured of playing a second-place team in the knockout round . ribery was involved in all three of bayern munich 's goals on wednesday , dec .
10 , scoring the second himself in the 34th minute with fighting play down the left flank . miroslav klose had put his team ahead in the 11th minute , raising his personal total to 21 career strikes in europe and five in the competition this season . klose followed up ribery 's score three minutes later , assisted with a pass from the frenchman , with a faulty hit at the far post that bounced over goalie hugo lloris ' head and into the net . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klinsmann said his team gave up a potential 4-0 win up 3-0 in the first half , bayern munich 's over-confidence led them to concede twice to the french .
lyon charged forward with goals from sidney govou in the 52nd and karim benzema in the 68th , but that was n't enough to recapture the win . despite his team 's strong final standing , coach juergen klinsmann said the result could have been better . " i think we missed out on our opportunities of making it 4-0 and then mentally relaxed a bit , " he told canal plus television .
" we made two mistakes and i think it was down to a lack of concentration .
you ca n't do that against such a good side as lyon . " bayern munich finish the round with 14 points , three ahead of lyon . other games also on wednesday , real madrid powered to a 3-0 win over zenit st. petersburg under new coach juande ramos .
european champions manchester united were meanwhile held 2-2 by danish visitors aalborg , while fiorentina and dynamo kiev clinched wins to go into the uefa cup . real 's convincing win , a day after ramos was appointed to replace the sacked bernd schuster , was not enough to overtake juventus at the top of group h where the serie a side played out a goalless draw at bate borisov . porto downed arsenal 2-0 , ensuring they both finished group winners and spain 's villareal slipped to a 2-0 defeat at scotland 's celtic . last-16 draw with qualification places already taken for the last-16 knockout stage , the evening 's action focused on the final group placings and the two uefa cup places still at stake for third-placed teams . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : real madrid crushed zenith st. petersburg 3-0 the following teams go into the last-16 draw on dec .
19 : barcelona , real madrid , villareal , atletico madrid -lrb- all spain -rrb- , manchester united , arsenal , liverpool , chelsea -lrb- all england -rrb- , juventus , inter milan , roma -lrb- all italy -rrb- , porto , sporting lisbon -lrb- both portugal -rrb- , bayern munich -lrb- germany -rrb- , olympique lyon -lrb- france -rrb- , panathinaikos -lrb- greece -rrb- . qualified for the uefa cup from the champions league are : werder bremen , fiorentina , girondins bordeaux , olympique marseille , aalborg , dynamo kiev , zenit st. petersburg and shakhtar donetsk . dw staff -lrb- kjb -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last-minute bayern goal secures victory over hoffenheim italy striker luca toni scored in stoppage time as bayern munich came from behind to beat hoffenheim 2-1 in the bundesliga 's top-of-the-table clash on friday , dec .
5 .
hoffenheim remain league leaders .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- bayern and hoffenheim to battle for the top of the table ahead of friday 's match between first-placed hoffenheim and second-placed bayern , the david-goliath comparisons are beginning to induce nausea .
but dw 's jefferson chase says hoffenheim can beat munich .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- made in germany : india 's steady soccer revolution india 's growing soccer culture is getting more than a helping hand from its friends in germany .
as well as high-level collaborations , a number of web sites set up by a german entrepreneur and fan are spreading the word .
-lrb- 04.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the voodoo we do dw 's experts resort to a mixture of voodoo and chicken bones to predict week eleven 's results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg players bremen and peru 's claudio pizarro talks on becoming the top foreign scorer in bundesliga history .
watch the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour kent nagano / bavarian state orchestra listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the situation in greece ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 11.12.2008 greek youth riot outside prison as chaos continues großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : emotions continue to run high in greece young greeks armed with rocks and firebombs continued to clash with police in athens .
elsewhere in europe , protestors burned cars and attacked greek consulates emotions ran high in greece on thursday , dec .
11 , as the two police officers who were charged in the shooting death of 15-year-old alexis grigoropoulos were scheduled to be transferred to prison .
several hundred protestors camped out in front of the country ’ s biggest prison to await the officers ' arrival .
at the koyrdallos prison , protesters threw rocks and other missiles at police , according to a prison guard .
police fired tear gas at the protestors .
grigoropoulos ' death has sparked six days of rioting and protests across the country .
the controversy heightened after initial reports indicated that grigoropoulos was killed by a bullet ricochet , legal sources said .
no signs of truce bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most of the demonstrations have been tense , but peaceful earlier in the day , gangs of young people threw rocks and firebombs at athens police stations while demonstrators clashed with police in front of the legislature building . " we are fed up with scandals and corruption , " demonstrator efi giannisi , a 38-year-old english teacher , told reuters news agency .
economic damage piling up bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : rioting and looting have caused millions in damages the violence has taken its toll .
the athens chamber of commerce and industry said 435 businesses had been hit , with 37 completely gutted .
the damage in athens alone was worth about 200 million euros -lrb- $ 259 million -rrb- , according to the greek commerce confederation .
that left greeks extremely frustrated , particularly with the inability of the government to contain the violence .
george papalexis , the owner of a gem store , said his business had sustained losses of 80,000 euros after rioters smashed through a reinforced window and made off with jewelry .
" personally , i expect the government should resign , " he told afp news agency .
" very soon we 'll see a change of government .
it 's a disgrace to see a city left to burn . "
in a televised address , prime minister costas karamanlis pledged up to 10,000 euros to stricken businesses , plus tax breaks and government-guaranteed loans to rebuild damaged property .
despite the turmoil , karamanlis 's office said he would attend a european union summit in brussels that starts thursday .
with the current government holding only a razor-thin majority in parliament , the country could be heading for early elections .
the opposition socialist party , which leads in the polls , has demanded just that . " the most likely scenario now is that karamanlis will call elections in two or three months ' time , " georges prevelakis , professor of geopolitics at sorbonne university in paris , told reuters news agency .
violence around europe bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek embassies around europe have been targeted by protestors but there were signs that athens was calmer than on wednesday , when many people took to the streets as part of a long-planned general strike by the country ’ s two largest unions .
still , there are concerns that the violence is not over .
a fresh student demonstration was scheduled for thursday evening , according to the interior ministry .
outside greece , small flare-ups were reported around europe .
arsonists torched two cars outside a greek consulate in southwestern france before dawn thursday , police said .
eight residents had to be evacuated from the building .
police found graffiti on a wall opposite the consulate reading " support for the fires in greece , " " insurrection everywhere " and " the coming insurrection , ” afp reported .
in istanbul , turkish left-wing protestors threw paint over the front of the greek consulate in istanbul .
in moscow and rome , there were reports that greek embassies were targeted by firebombs .
in spain , a dozen demonstrators were arrested and several police injured in clashes that took place in madrid and barcelona .
another 32 people were arrested in copenhagen when a protest in support of greek rioters turned violent , according to police . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : greek youth acting out against broken system as young greeks continue to riot , many are wondering what exactly they want .
they are fed up with the current system , says spiros moskovou .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- athens court firebombed as rioters battle police during strike the athens court hosting the police officers accused of killing a 15-year-old boy was attacked by rioters hurling petrol bombs wednesday as police fought with protestors during a nationwide strike elsewhere in the city .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- general strike and riots on 5th day of greek unrest a general strike crippled greece on wednesday , as running street battles between youths and police continued for a fifth day .
the death of a teenager , which sparked the riots , may have been caused by a ricochet bullet .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic athenians are not happy about the rioting or the government 's response -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- after days of rioting in greece , civil unrest has now spread to spain , italy and denmark -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear soundscape 10 dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures britain suffering from prison overcrowding norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour summer music days in hitzacker listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 germany ’ s stand on euthanasia strongly influenced by nazi past the “ right to die ” documentary shown on british tv has reignited a long-running debate in germany , as well .
euthanasia programs under the nazi regime make today ’ s german politicians reluctant to accept assisted suicide . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 euthanasia in germany 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear soundscape 10 dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 dw-tv europe live fit & gesund - das gesundheitsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from ermany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe interview : raising awareness on prison conditions britain suffering from prison overcrowding the prison everyone wants to stay in fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download inside europe 's report 9799 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live mission europe listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels 9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.12.2008 ireland to hold new referendum on eu reform tretay ireland has decided to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s reform treaty .
but , as eu leaders tackled climate change and europe 's economic woes , protestors were making their voices heard , in brussels . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod1112 demos in brussels feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german automakers want access to us aid package -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de auto industry -pipe- 11.12.2008 german automakers want access to us aid package großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us aid package amy still get shot down by the senate german auto manufacturers want equal access to emergency funding for their us operations after the us house of representatives passed a $ 14 billion bailout package to save the struggling us industry . they said that if they did not get such access , then they would be at a competitive disadvantage to their us rivals , general motors , ford and chrysler .
" the crucial point for us is that all those who build in america , and not only american groups , be treated the same way under this plan , " the head of the automakers federation vda , matthias wissmann , told the berliner zeitung daily .
german companies like daimler and bmw that also have factories in the united states must also have access to the aid , which would be granted in the form of bridge loans , he said .
" obstacles to competition must be avoided in all cases , " wissmann said , while also calling for several billion euros in european union help to boost development of environmentally friendly cars .
" we want to push research and development of ecological automobiles with that , " the vda president said .
in washington , the us house of representatives approved a $ 14 billion -lrb- 10.8-billion-euro -rrb- government lifeline for the us auto industry but the plan still faces possible defeat in the senate owing to stiff republican opposition .
swedish government approves billion-euro aid package meanwhile , the swedish government on thursday announced a 28-billion-kronor -lrb- 2.65-billion-euro , $ 3.5-billion -rrb- package to help the country 's beleaguered automotive sector , including carmakers volvo and saab .
the measures " will take the form of increased investment in research and development and state credit guarantees for raising loans -lrb- from -rrb- the european investment bank , " the government said in a statement .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saab , like opel , is owned by us giant general motors volvo cars is owned by struggling us automaker ford while saab automobile is owned by general motors which has warned it could run out of money in the next few months without state aid .
the swedish government , which had previously said it would await a us decision on a rescue package before announcing any measures , reiterated it would not take over the struggling swedish car makers .
" we should not own companies , " finance minister anders borg stressed .
but , " with the financial woes that we have , we must meet the concerns in the car industry ... and create conditions for them to be able to operate on the market , " he added .
sweden 's car industry accounts for 15 percent of the country 's exports and , with some 700 companies and suppliers , employs about 140,000 people . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vw seeks government refinancing guarantees a banking unit of volkswagen ag that helps buyers to finance cars said it was seeking assistance from the german government 's bail-out scheme for banks .
other automakers are considering similar moves .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- calls mount in germany for state aid to industry calls mounted in germany saturday , dec 6 for the government to come to the aid of industry as the nation battens down for what may be its worst downturn for 15 years .
-lrb- 06.12.2008 -rrb- ford germany ceo : we 're not calling for government aid the head of ford germany , bernhard mattes , told dw-tv why he 's rejecting a government bailout for his struggling industry , but still supports a concerted european effort to help carmakers get back on their feet .
-lrb- 23.11.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de climate -pipe- 11.12.2008 financial crisis looms over eu leaders ' split on co2 reductions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the cutting of europe 's co2 emissions may have to wait until the finacial crisis has passed eu leaders began a first round of complex talks on how to obtain massive greenhouse-gas emission cuts by 2020 .
while some pressed for emergency action , the financial crisis stopped others from committing . " this is the moment of truth for the climate , " swedish prime minister fredrik reinfeldt said as he arrived in brussels .
world attention has focused on the eu 's bid to set in law a pledge to cut emissions of carbon dioxide -lrb- co2 , the gas most associated with global warming -rrb- to 20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 .
" what we need , today , is leadership . ...
we look for that leadership from the european union , " united nations secretary general ban ki-moon told delegates at a parallel un conference on climate change in the polish city of poznan .
eu leaders have repeatedly highlighted the pledge as proof that the 27-member bloc is already leading the world on climate change .
" we have reduction targets , other people do n't yet , " german chancellor angela merkel said .
but on the morning of the summit , the french presidency of the eu proposed a watered-down set of laws on the climate-change package in a bid to win unanimous backing amid strong resistance from germany , italy and many eastern european nations .
berlusconi calls emission talk " absurd " in current crisis " if we do not obtain what we have clearly asked for from the start , we will veto -lrb- the package -rrb- , " said italian prime minister silvio berlusconi at a pre-summit meeting of conservative leaders .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi makes it clear what he thinks of emission cuts berlusconi and others fear that the costly emission cuts imposed by brussels will make their industries less competitive at a time of economic slowdown .
" it is absurd to talk about emission -lrb- cuts -rrb- when there is an -lrb- economic -rrb- crisis : it is as if someone suffering from pneumonia were to think about having a perm , " berlusconi said .
the french government , which currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency , hopes to win over their support by offering industries more free permits to emit co2 .
the original proposal from the eu 's executive , the european commission , was that most industries should buy 20 percent of their emission permits at auction in 2013 , and that that proportion should increase to 100 per cent in 2020 .
the idea behind the scheme is to make it so expensive for industry to emit co2 that it becomes attractive to reduce emissions .
the french proposal is that such industries should only have to buy 70 percent of their permits in 2020 - thereby reducing the incentive to invest in new , low-co2 technology .
the commission had also proposed that power generators should have to buy all their permits at auction from 2013 .
poor , coal-reliant countries force eu 's hand bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : coal-reliant poland took a step closer to its reduction target but after bitter protests from poland , which is reliant on highly- polluting coal for most of its electricity , the french presidency proposed that power stations in poor , coal-reliant countries should only have to buy 30 per cent of their permits at auction in 2013 , with full auctioning not becoming the rule until 2020 .
polish diplomats said the proposal looked attractive , but that they would require more information on the way it would be applied before coming to a decision .
debate also loomed over a set of proposals to give extra funding to the bloc 's poorest members by allowing them to auction a greater relative share of co2 permits than their wealthier counterparts .
poorer states such as slovakia say they should be given more credit than the 10-per-cent premium proposed by the commission , while rich states such as britain and sweden say it should be less .
" the countries who are demanding most softening in the climate package are the ones that already have the least difficult targets in terms of gdp .
sweden has the toughest targets even though it leads the world on fighting climate change , " reinfeldt said .
but a counter-proposal from germany and poland to scrap the 10-per-cent clause entirely , and to give the poorer members some 45 billion euros extra in the next eu budget , ran into fire from french officials who said that it would be too costly , diplomats said .
eu officials hope that the bloc 's leaders will approve a compromise at the summit by friday , with the european parliament due to give it final approval on wednesday .
" the task is to think about our children and leave them a planet which is worthy of life , " said belgian prime minister yves leterme . dpa news agency -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister : america is on a better path the european union must pay special attention so as not to gamble away its leading position on climate protection , geman environment minister sigmar gabriel told dw-world.de -lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- merkel : jobs more important than climate change chancellor angela merkel has been keen to promote herself as a tough actor on climate change , but with a new eu climate deal in the making , she 's issued a new caveat : it must not jeopardize german jobs .
-lrb- 08.12.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic european union leaders start two days of talks on a climate change package -lrb- 11.12.2008 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds maike mia höhne - curator berlinale shorts listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 eu set for most important summit in years as crises reign großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it 's time again for the eu 's annual pre-christmas get-together three main issues will dominate the european union 's final 2008 summit in brussels .
and as always , there 's been no shortage of squabbling between large and small bloc members in the run-up . what to do about climate change - that 's one question that almost certain to create a stormy atmosphere when the 27 eu nations convene on thursday , december 11 .
" this will be perhaps the most crucial european -lsb- summit -rsb- in recent years ... a real test for europe , " european commission president jose manuel barroso said ahead of the brussels meeting .
the eu has set itself a target of lowering carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent of their 1990 levels by the year 2020 .
one way to achieve that , say some established member states , is to force industry throughout the bloc to pay for the right to emit greenhouse gasses .
but newer eu members such as poland , which are still heavily dependent on coal-generated power , say that would cripple their economies .
germany is sitting on the fence on this issue .
on tuesday , german chancellor angela merkel said that she could understand poland 's concerns and that a compromise should be found .
and on monday she vowed to resist any measures that could cost german jobs .
but germany has also joined with france and italy in insisting their industries should be protected from competition , if developing economies do n't sign on to the climate-protection agreement .
economic crisis looms large bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso says this meeting will be especially important at the summit , member states will also debate ways to coordinate their various national responses to the global economic crisis .
at stake is a stimulus package of 200 billion euros -lrb- $ 258 billion -rrb- - or around 1.5 percent of the eu 's total economic output .
here , too , members disagree - especially on what to do with some 5 billion euros in unspent eu funds .
some states want that money invested in high-tech projects like broadband internet , while others should say it should be refunded to individual countries ' national budgets .
and there are questions about the package 's effectiveness since it represents an effort to coordinate national strategies , rather than an eu-level response to the economic downturn that has pushed most of europe into or to the brink of recession .
where to go with lisbon bildunterschrift : a faltering ecomony , a changing climate and a stalled treaty are all on the agenda finally , members must consider how to proceed with the lisbon treaty , the eu 's stalled initiative to reform and streamline its own structures of governance .
ireland voters rejected the treaty in a popular referendum last june but the way could be cleared for the irish to hold a second referendum on the treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders released at thursday 's summit said .
in a symbolic blow for the treaty , the parliament of the czech republic said on tuesday it was delaying a vote on ratifying the document until february 2009 .
with the czechs scheduled to assume the eu 's rotating presidency at the start of the new year , that means czech prime minister mirek topolanek would be charged with brokering a solution to impasse over the controversial treaty . dw staff -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel faces cold shoulder in brussels as eu leaders gather germany 's chancellor angela merkel faces a chilly reception at this week 's european union summit in brussels after steadfastly resisting calls to drastically boost government spending as an antidote to recession .
-lrb- 10.12.2008 -rrb- merkel and tusk meet , agree on eu climate deal at a meeting in warsaw , german chancellor angela merkel and polish prime minister tusk said they made progress on a common position toward eu environmental goals .
both want more flexibility .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- eu agrees to expand use of renewable energy european union delegates have laid the groundwork for new law that would boost the use of renewable energy sources to 20 percent of total consumption by the year 2020 .
-lrb- 09.12.2008 -rrb- feedback will the summit be a success ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 11.12.2008 second lisbon referendum on the cards for ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish public were split over the lisbon treaty the way could be cleared for ireland to hold a second referendum on the european union ’ s lisbon treaty by october 2009 , a draft statement by eu leaders said thursday . the statement grants several major concessions to dublin in an effort to convince irish voters of the merits of adopting the reforming treaty , which attempts to streamline decision-making within the 27-member bloc .
irish voters rejected the pact in a referendum held in june , partly out of concerns that their country would lose the right to nominate a commissioner to the eu 's executive .
objection to shrinking commission part of the original treaty was designed to reduce the european commission 's size to two-thirds of the currently 27 commissioners from 2014 .
but the draft statement says eu leaders agreed on keeping a rule allowing each member state to nominate a member of the commission .
" the european council agrees that provided the lisbon treaty enters into force … the commission shall continue to include one national of each member state , " the draft statement said .
" in the light of the above commitments by the european council … the irish government is committed to seeking ratification of the lisbon treaty by the end of the term of the current commission , " which finishes in october next year , the statement said .
irish concerns appeased bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : irish pm brian cowen , left , will detail to the eu how ireland will approve the treaty the draft also includes a declaration designed to address a number of additional concerns expressed by the irish in their ‘ no ' vote .
these include guarantees that ireland 's traditional policy of neutrality would be maintained and that the lisbon treaty does not impinge on ireland 's right to set tax levels .
irish voters were also concerned the treaty would contravene the country 's constitution on issues relating to the right to life , education and family .
brussels summit the statement awaits confirmation at a two-day eu summit in brussels scheduled to begin later thursday .
irish prime minister brian cowen is to open the meeting by explaining how his government intended to ratify the treaty , which can not come into force until it is approved by all 27 member states .
if ireland approves the treaty through a second referendum in october 2009 , reforms could come into force by the end of next year .
irish foreign affairs minister michael martin stressed the draft concessions still required approval by all eu member states at the summit .
" work remains to be completed with our european partners over the coming months and any second referendum is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of that work , " martin said . dw staff -lrb- dfm -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german foreign minister : europe needs lisbon treaty the irish rejection of the lisbon treaty has sent shockwaves across the eu .
but the treaty is still no lost cause , says german foreign minister steinmeier in an exclusive essay for dw-world.de. -lrb- 22.07.2008 -rrb- sarkozy : no " miracle " in eu treaty talks with irish after meeting with the irish prime minister brian cowen , french president nicolas sarkozy said there was " no miracle solution " to the impasse caused by the irish rejection of the european union 's lisbon treaty in june .
-lrb- 21.07.2008 -rrb- eu presses ahead with treaty ratification despite irish " no " ahead of a summit in brussels , the european union called wednesday for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to continue despite its crushing rejection by irish voters last week .
-lrb- 18.06.2008 -rrb- eu ministers look for way forward after irish treaty shock still reeling from irish voters ' rejection of the european union 's reform plans , the bloc 's foreign ministers are meeting monday , june 16 to discuss how to proceed .
-lrb- 16.06.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic since ireland officially declared it was in recession , people are doing their christmas shopping only reluctantly - je 11.12.2008 08 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - highlights of the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
polish prisoners learn the ropes of television -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe dw-world : interview : raising awareness on prison conditions dw-world : britain suffering from prison overcrowding dw-world : the prison everyone wants to stay in dw-world : fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 polish prisoners learn the ropes of television großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prison tv can bring color to many inmates ' lives in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community . one of poland 's top television hits this season is " four down , " a comedy set in a prison cell .
its inmates use surreal humor to while away the hours , while the hard-hitting dialogues bring viewers a taste of what it 's like to be cut off from the rest of society with little hope of being reintegrated . this purely literary creation has resulted in a real-life spin-off .
inspired by the show , the inmates and supervisors at a prison in the remote town of czerwony bór in poland 's depressed northeast have decided to set up a television network of their own . the shows are to be prepared exclusively by prisoners in and outside the compound .
they will include reports on everyday life inside the cells , sports and cultural events held within the compound , as well as coverage of events from the region . the organizers are also planning to shoot corporate presentations for local companies and air them inside the prison , to let the inmates know about job prospects available to them once they get out .
there will be interviews with personnel managers at the companies , so that the inmates can see for themselves that the companies do n't mind working with former convicts . doing something useful behind bars the idea is to show prison tv programs also outside the compound on a local cable network .
the organizers want viewers in the region to find out about the many public initiatives the inmates are involved in - such as the " clean the world campaign " - to change the popular perception that they are just hardened criminals . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sports play an important role for prisoners at the czerwony bór prison wojtek , who 's in his late twenties , is serving a two-year sentence at czerwony bór for breaking and entering .
he says he really enjoys coming down to the tv studio in the prison . " i 've been involved in community radio at the prison since i arrived here last year , " wojtek says .
" it 's an interesting job and it 's good fun , but i also feel that i 'm doing something useful .
it 's something i can be proud of when i talk to my family when they come to visit me here . " helping other people is important the popular polish music television presenter hirek wrona often visits prisons to work with inmates as a volunteer . " apart from having fun playing videos to entertain the inmates , i feel that you are only worth as much in life as you can help other people , " wrona says . before prison tv goes on the air , the crew is to undergo technical training at one of poland 's local television stations .
the organizers are hoping that this experiment , which will often enable the inmates to work on the outside , will bring them closer to normal life - and will make them less likely to reoffend . rafal kiepuszewski send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : download inside europe 's report picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal - with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : inspired minds audio : one-to-one with pianist charles spencer part 2 audio : listen live © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the prison everyone wants to stay in -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe dw-world : interview : raising awareness on prison conditions dw-world : fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures dw-world : britain suffering from prison overcrowding dw-world : norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 the prison everyone wants to stay in großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : only the bars on the windows give away hostel celica 's history it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel . hostel celica is the ritz of the backpacking world .
you ca n't miss it : the outside walls are a riot of color .
and inside , for around 20 euros -lrb- $ 25 -rrb- , you get a comfy place to sleep , a beer garden , restaurant , and that all important internet café - not to mention regular parties , art exhibitions and jam sessions . previous guests did n't have it quite so good , says architect janko rozic . " it has a really hard history because during the second world war , this was the nazi prison for all of ljubljana , " rozic says . hostel celica is the ultimate makeover .
rozic says the building was a jail for nearly 100 years - from when it was built as a military prison in 1882 until 1991 , when slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia .
the barracks around it were then gradually demolished . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : all rooms still have original barred doors but rozic had a vision .
he saw the old jail as a chance to make a statement about freedom and peace through art and aesthetics . " for me , this was a personal problem : if it is possible to show that each building can be rebuilt and each part of our planet can be renovated and recovered in one way , " rozic says . the entire project was done under very difficult conditions during the war in yugoslavia .
but rozic mobilized his friends - artists , sculptors , painters and architects - and over the next 10 years , 80 of them put their creative energy into transforming the jail . a safe place to sleep the word celica is slovenian for cell and the hostel has 20 of them .
they 're all unique with the individual stamp of the artists who renovated them . cell 107 , for example , was designed by maxim issaev and alexandra manic .
two of the walls are completely decorated with an abstract mural from floor to ceiling in incredibly vivid and bright blues , browns and ocher . despite the unique designs of each room , there is still a window with bars on it , high up on the end wall .
and behind each outside door is a second grill door : the original bars .
so with all those bars , guests can feel pretty safe for their night 's rest . symbolism pervades all areas in addition to the singularity of each room , rozic says symbolism pervades every nook and cranny . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this room emits a romantic air " orientation is the axis of function , so we have oriental café on the east , western café on the west and the slovenian restaurant in the middle , " rozic says . the hostel offers a daily tour by a staff member who points out its artistic idiosyncrasies .
along with the original cells , there 's a prayer room , another floor with dormitories and even a couple of dungeons . during the tour , people staying in the cells are asked to keep their outer door unlocked so that everyone can have a sticky-beak inside through the bars . cultural activity a must architect rozic helps organize events , such as jazz sessions , and sees them as an extension of what the artists have tried to achieve . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the common room is anything but prison-like " it 's true that the building is heavy , " he says .
" because of this heaviness , it all the time needs a cultural activity to balance this . " rozic says the contributors to the building invented a special term through the development . " we often say we are improvising , but not only improvising , we say ' improve-ise ' - to improve things through the freedom of choice . " twenty cells , 20 different dreams .
there are guests who come back again and again to hostel celica for a new sleeping sensation .
after all , it provides a unique opportunity to doss down surrounded by unique art installations . helen seeney send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : download inside europe 's report picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal - mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : concert hour audio : ard music competition -lrb- ii -rrb- audio : listen live © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
troubles not solved in northern ireland -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : breakaway regions dw-world : ethnic divisions continue burdening bosnia and herzegovina dw-world : scotland continues to strive for independence dw-world : transnistria suffers from stalemate dw-world : violence hinders constructive debate in the basque region europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 troubles not solved in northern ireland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bogside artists paint huge murals about the neighborhood 's past a multi-party power-sharing agreement was reached in 1998 in northern ireland .
but 10 years down the line , catholic irish nationalists and protestants loyal to britain remain deeply divided . the bogside neighborhood of derry will forever be inextricably linked with the troubles in northern ireland .
this conflict raged for 30 years in the country , claiming many lives . this catholic , irish nationalist area of town was the scene of numerous protests , riots and deadly violence , the most famous of which was bloody sunday . " things like that are still open wounds , there are a lot of unsolved cases , killing at the hands of the state which have n't been addressed , " says local artist tom kelly . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is the corner where bloody sunday took place in 1972 " there are sectarian undertones that are very much still alive , passed on by parents , " he says .
" and it 's going to take a lot of thinking , a lot of courage to examine the wounds , to have the courage to clean them out and see them heal properly . " it 's through their work that the bogside artists are trying to make sense of the neighborhood 's past and start the healing process - not just for the community , but also for themselves .
all three men lost family members during the troubles . the huge murals they have painted on the walls of the houses along rossville street depict the painful , shared experiences of a divided community .
it has become known as the " people 's gallery . " according to tom , the aim is to take derry 's story back from the media and tell it themselves , through the eyes of those who lived through the troubles . " the bogside artist 's work has always been entitled from protest to peace , " he says .
" we do n't skirt around the issues , do n't shy away from difficult things , like killing of children , bombs , kneecapping , tar and featherings , informants being shot , or people going missing never to be found . " sharing a divided community just under a mile away from the bogside is the fountain estate .
it 's the last protestant enclave on the city side of derry .
this tiny minority of unionists loyal to britain remain , surrounded by a sea of catholic irish nationalists . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fountain estate is a protestant enclave each year on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , they hold a remembrance service marking the end of the first world war and commemorating those who fell , fighting for britain . for many nationalists , this day is a symbol of british occupation .
they refuse to buy the plastic poppies , sold every year to raise funds for british army charities . to show that both communities suffered greatly in the first world war , jeanette warke took a group of young catholics and protestants to the battlefields in france and belgium .
although she 's a member of the protestant community , warke works with youngsters from across the divide on the shared city project .
education , she says , is the key to really ending the troubles . " it 's all very well talking about the signing of the good friday agreement , but everyone forgot about the kids , " warke says .
" some of them were born into the middle of it and i do n't think they know what happened .
it 's only what they can get out of people at the table or at the street corner . " during the troubles , children had nowhere to go at night and more often than not , they got caught up with paramilitary groups .
to combat that , warke 's late husband david set up the cathedral youth club on the fountain estate .
still today , it 's one of the only alternatives for young protestants living on the city side of derry . " the young people i work with here , they do n't go downtown to shop unless they are in a group , " warke says .
" they are often targeted , often beaten up just going to local shops . " in this respect , derry can be seen as a microcosm of the whole situation in northern ireland : two societies living parallel lives .
a range of projects have been successful in bringing young catholics and protestants together , though . one country , two identities there has been great progress in community relations in derry .
yet many within the protestant minority community feel they do not have a stake in their own city . in order to bridge the gap , risks need to be taken .
that 's the philosophy of mayor gerad diver .
recently , he held a reception in the town hall for troops from derry , returning home after serving with the british army in iraq . " some political figures thought it inappropriate for me as an irish nationalist to do that , given the history of the british army in this part of the world , " diver says .
" but the territorial army members are very much citizens of this city .
and as mayor , i have to be first citizen for everyone , irrespective of their background . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sinn fein and the dup work together in the northern irish parliament identity is a major issue : the nationalists want to be part of ireland , the unionists part of britain .
so how does power-sharing work in the devolved northern ireland assembly ?
well , the situation on the streets has improved dramatically .
and despite the differences between the major parties - the nationalist sinn fein party and the unionist dup - power-sharing is better than the previous arrangement : direct rule from london . for years , the province was ruled by ministers from britain who met twice a week .
now , local issues are dealt with by locally elected representatives .
and progress is at last in sight .
recently the two sides reached a deal on the devolution of policing powers from london to belfast .
the five-month deadlock had caused a complete political stalemate in the stormont parliament . the fact that the community accepts the work of a police force is a total transformation from seven or eight years ago , the mayor says . " we have seen amazing things , " diver says .
" we have seen a government working together who literally would n't speak to each other if they met on the street .
we have evidence of coming together , so why ca n't we do it for identity ?
it really is just another stage in peace building . " not ready for power-sharing but michael doherty from the peace and reconciliation group believes politicians are still not reaching across the divide .
he says sectarianism is as raw today as it has ever been .
people need to understand that although the violence is mainly over in northern ireland , the conflict certainly is n't , he says .
and in fact , the good friday power-sharing agreement has only served to deepen sectarian segregation in the province . " when the agreement was allegedly reached , the community was not ready for it , " doherty says .
" my view is that dup were forced into agreement because of plan b , which has not been talked about in the public arena . "
plan b was if they did n't enter into power sharing with sinn fein , there would have been joint authority with the british and irish governments sharing power in northern ireland , he says . the two sides are locked in extreme positions on further issues , education for example or the building of a new sports stadium on the site of the former maze prison .
this leaves a vacuum in society , says doherty , and gives fodder to opponents of the agreement . the only way to resolve this would be a clear message from the british government that they will intervene , he says .
that would set the peace process back years , and could even run the risk of a return to violence . rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : download inside europe 's report picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : inside europe audio : the inside take on european affairs 05.12.09 audio : listen live © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
interview : raising awareness on prison conditions -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe dw-world : the prison everyone wants to stay in dw-world : fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures dw-world : britain suffering from prison overcrowding dw-world : norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 interview : raising awareness on prison conditions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : jan de cock voluntarily had himself locked up in some of the world 's poorest prisons a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole . jan de cock traveled around the globe for years , sharing cells for weeks on end with musicians and actors , murderers and mothers who had stolen food for their children .
he lived alongside rats , fleas and locusts , all the time keeping a diary of his experiences .
de cock recorded them all in his book " hotel prison , " which has been published in the flemish original , dutch and german , and is soon to be published in french and english . deutsche welle : you seem to have an incredible passion for the fate and welfare of prisoners .
where does this come from ? jan de cock : it all started way back in chile where i used to work with school kids .
when a lot of them ended up in prison , i was asked to set up the workshops in the prison .
to me , it was the discovery of a complete new world .
the whole idea of intimidation , aggression and filthy places was confirmed .
but at the same time , i discovered a whole set of values shared by these people behind bars like patience , generosity and trust .
i said the world has to know about this as well . most people dream about getting out of prisons , but you dreamt about getting in .
how did you manage to get into prisons without committing a crime ? i think i have been in 138 prisons and it 's not that easy to get a ticket for a jail .
i started writing to a lot of embassies , consulates and organizations that work in prisons .
the other way was my many contacts with ex-prisoners .
some of them had an uncle who worked as a guard in a prison or another one had a neighbor who was a chaplain .
and in some countries i had to be creative . for example ? well like in china , i walked over to tiananmen square with a bunch of flowers and i gave flowers to the soldiers .
i showed them a little piece of paper that said in chinese " peace and freedom . "
now that 's enough to be arrested . how did the authorities react to your request to go inside a prison ? i got a lot of answers that said : " you really want to live the life with these prisoners ?
you must be nuts ! "
but some of them were quite interested and said you 'd be most welcome because we have interesting projects and there are nice programs on rehabilitation . what about the prisoners themselves - did you have to work hard to gain their acceptance ? in the beginning they were hesitant .
but in most cases , and that 's why i 'm still so touched by the generosity of them , they very soon deposit their confidence in you . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : de cock 's book has been published in several languages of course , when you share these conditions with them there is something that goes far beyond words .
and i had a guilty conscience that after a couple of weeks or days , i had to leave the cell . there 's a chapter in your book where you visited turkey , and its called turkish fruit and turkish hunger , because when you arrived 20 inmates were on hunger strike .
how did you find the conditions in turkish prisons ? i was in one prison in istanbul and the conditions were just terrible , particularly with those people who were on hunger strike .
it 's maybe not just about the conditions , but about the indifference of the authorities and maybe that 's worse than having to deal with the lack of food or bad toilets .
the indifference and the loneliness of so many people - that 's something that struck me on the world tour , people in prisons are often a forgotten group . what would be the first thing that you personally would do to improve the conditions of jails in turkey ? i think it 's something that is valid for countries all around the world .
i think we have to raise awareness in the community .
the point is what it means for every person in society .
i think if we believe that prisoners are part of our society , then we really have to take care of them .
that means to focus on two important things : education and healthcare .
people in prison should have the same rights as other citizens . i do n't want to be blind against the crimes they have committed and i am a big defender of justice .
if we understand imprisonment as a way to pay for the crime you have committed , then that does n't mean we should forget about other rights , like food , healthcare and education .
fortunately , i came across a lot of prisons where they work with that vision . you shared cells with all types of people .
were you never scared ? i think fear is just the opposite of trust and confidence , and it is still my idea about life that in every person there is something good .
i think that conviction has encouraged me a lot .
even when you go into the prisons , and some of them are hell , i 'm not going to say that i did n't have to deal with difficult situations . if you manage to go through that , then you reach the heart of every human being and thus of every prisoner as well .
that 's how i started to discover so many beautiful things in them .
it 's amazing how they are able to create beautiful things to survive .
a few weeks ago , in one of the cells in antwerp where i work in the prison , there was a russia guy and he made models of little churches out of his toothpaste .
amazing . you mention the issue of trust .
how important is it for prisoners to build up a relationship of trust with their cellmates and how did you experience this ? a problem in many prison systems is the lack of trust .
then you see when authorities deposit confidence in these inmates , all of a sudden a whole world is opened .
it reminds me of one guy who was addicted to robbery , particularly of the handbags of elderly ladies . for the last two years , he has been doing voluntary work in a home for elderly people - and as far as now , no handbag has disappeared !
but the amazing thing is that a while ago , he was asked by the director of the home to feed one of the elderly ladies who was n't able to come to the dinner hall .
as he walked into her room , he started to cry because he said it was the first time in all these years that someone had deposited that amount of trust in him .
it made a click . would you recommend people to go and stay in a prison ? it depends on what your goal is .
after 15 years of working with prisoners , i slept for the first time in a prison .
and ever since then , it has been different .
so if we want to understand inmates a bit better , or if we really want to reach the soul of prisoners , it is good to live with them .
maybe that is the major breakthrough in my life .
it 's not just a question of taking care of prisoners and believing they have another opportunity , but it is also allowing them to make a difference in your life . you have your book , a new prison project , you 're continuing to visit prisons around the world and give lectures on the topic and you have your web site www.prisoninfo.org.
what is the main objective you are hoping to achieve with everything ? the two main goals of our foundation are to raise funding to improve the condition of prisons worldwide and to raise awareness amongst us all .
personally i would say if we do n't take care of prisoners , just like taking care of street kids and refugees and the sick , we miss an opportunity to become happier . interview : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal - mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : newslink audio : audio : listen live © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe dw-world : interview : raising awareness on prison conditions dw-world : britain suffering from prison overcrowding dw-world : the prison everyone wants to stay in dw-world : norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : designing and sewing fashion is boosting prisoners ' self-esteem thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . " the " made in jail " label makes everything from logo t-shirts and sweats to handbags .
over the years , the company has proven that what inmates learn on the inside makes for good business on the outside . the man behind the company is 48-year-old silvio palermo .
for the past two decades , he 's been coming to rebibbia prison on the outskirts of rome several times a week .
he runs his small , but thriving business from the inside of one of italy 's toughest prisons . in a workshop crammed with silk-screening frames , shelves , long wooden tables and paints , the co-op 's inmates come up with tongue-in-cheek lines like " i 'm too sexy to have to work " or a witty commentary on capital punishment like the word " no " - with the letter o in the shape of a noose . they then silkscreen the words or designs onto t-shirts and handbags and , with the help of a group of ex-convicts who work for the co-op on the outside , sell them across italy . all of the t-shirts have the " made in jail " logo boldly imprinted across the front or back . working to feel useful palermo first came up with the concept of making the t-shirts when he did time back in the 1980s in his late teens for political association with the red brigade terrorist group .
while in prison , he reformed .
but he said his jail experience nearly put him over the deep-end .
when he got out , he wanted to help other men cope with being confined . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sewing gives inmates something to do " prison is the quintessential place of thought and reflection , " palermo says .
" you 're already closed up inside yourself , so the danger with prison is that you can literally go crazy thinking about yourself too much . " sandro , a 43-year-old ex-drug addict , is finishing off a sentence for drugs and robbery .
he says he likes the creativity of the work , and the chance to share jokes with the other men . " it 's exactly because it 's very difficult to find laughter in prison , that with this work , at least for a small part of the day , you can laugh and have fun coming up with funny lines or wordplays , " sandro says . his colleague gaston was living with an italian family and working as an electrician when he got hooked on cocaine and landed in jail .
the 26-year-old originally from trinidad and tobago says his first months in rebibbia were full of despair .
but the co-op has helped him stay positive by feeling useful . " first , it passes the time , " gaston says .
" second , you learn something .
third , it distracts you from thinking negatively about drugs and your bad life , so it 's educational . " not for everyone organizer palermo says the t-shirts are really just a pretext to communicate with the outside world .
and to help ex-cons cope with an invisible label that sticks for the rest of your life . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the " made in jail " logo is proudly printed on all the products " the problem for prisoners is that once you 've done time , there 's a sense that you 're irredeemable , " palermo says .
" so what we 're doing is trying to flip the meaning of prison away from something purely negative . " he says he wants to show that prison is also a place where creative projects are born . " but society has to be open to these projects , " palermo says .
" prison walls only get lowered when the outside world is willing to give these kinds of initiatives a chance . " the group sells its goods in small shops throughout rome and at roadside restaurants across the country .
inmates get paid about 1 euro -lrb- $ 1.30 -rrb- a shirt and once they 're on the outside , get a regular salary .
the co-op even has its own store - ironically , a retail space that used to belong to a mafia-run business until it was confiscated by the italian state . " made in jail " now does about 200,000 euros -lrb- $ 260,000 -rrb- of business each year .
still , despite its good intentions , palermo says not everyone appreciates the humor behind the initiative . " sure we hear scornful comments , but it does n't matter , " he says .
" it 's important for us to assert the fact that of course we 're ex-cons , but we 're working legally now . " inmate sandro says he plans to join the 30 or so ex-cons who run the co-op when he gets out of rebibbia .
they 're going to need him .
italy 's biggest national roadside restaurant chain is now selling the t-shirts .
a hopeful sign that " made in jail " is starting to be seen as a legitimate enterprise . megan williams send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : download inside europe 's report picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : in-box audio : feedback from around the world audio : listen live © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
britain suffering from prison overcrowding -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : doing time in europe dw-world : interview : raising awareness on prison conditions dw-world : fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures dw-world : the prison everyone wants to stay in dw-world : norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 britain suffering from prison overcrowding großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strangeways may look grand from the outside , but it 's full to overflowing within britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem . the manchester prison is a forbidding victorian brick structure with turrets framing a gigantic wooden gate .
this is a high security prison , and it is as good as full . the prison formerly known as strangeways is indicative of the situation in the uk - it has the largest prison population in western europe .
many penitentiaries have been forced to nearly double their capacity in the past few years to deal with the huge increase in the prison population .
more and more inmates are forced to share prison cells designed for one . this has led to a growing number of prison suicides , such as paul calvert .
he hanged himself after only two days behind bars .
prison suicides have tripled in the past few years , and some link this to the difficult conditions created by overpopulation . calvert had fought a 20-year heroin addiction , and could not face the harsh realities of prison life , says his mother gwen . " the system failed him , " she says .
" my paul went to prison to lose his liberty , not his life .
i 'm so angry , this should n't have happened . " cell sharing is the norm the prison service says there is no clear link to overcrowding and high suicide rates .
but campaigners for prison reform , prison officers and lawyers say overcrowding has reached unacceptable levels . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the prison 's rotunda was refurbished in 1994 martin richardson , a criminal lawyer based in manchester , says he spoke to an officer at a prison in preston , who advised him that the prison was designed to accommodate approximately 490 prisoners . " and he told me that they 've been advised that as of the following week , they were expected to accommodate nearer to 800 prisoners , " richardson says .
" that is achieved simply by doubling up prisoners in the cells .
it is very unusual now to see a prisoner who is not sharing a cell with another person . " opposition leader david cameron has attacked the labour government for failing to deal with the lack of prison space .
an early release scheme designed to deal with overcrowding has made people here worried that dangerous criminals will roam the streets when they should be in jail . mass-sized jails are under construction but lawyer richardson is worried another trend amongst police is making this problem even worse , namely a massive use of fixed penalty notices .
he says the current level is 80 pounds -lrb- 91 euros or $ 118 -rrb- . " everyone has stories about offenses that appear to be undercharged , " richardson says .
" a less serious offense has been charged rather than the one that more fits the evidence . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : manchester police are more likely to issue a fine than to arrest someone , critics say according to a story richardson heard from a colleague , two men had been brought in , apparently apprehended walking down the street in possession of a samurai sword each .
they were given fixed penalty notices . " potentially a very serious crime was going to be committed , " richardson says .
" i ca n't imagine they had any legitimate reason to carry a samurai sword down the street at two o 'clock in the morning . " the government now wants to spend 1.5 billion euros building three super-sized jails , each holding 2,500 offenders .
this should all be in place by 2012 . but campaigners say such prisons are nothing but warehouses for storing criminals , leaving them little or no chance of rehabilitation .
the result , they fear , is that people will go on re-offending , and the prison population will continue to grow .
but so far , neither the government nor the opposition has come up with a better solution . lars bevanger send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : download inside europe 's report picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal - with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : news audio : audio : listen live © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
doing time in europe -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.12.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 11.12.2008 doing time in europe you 've probably heard of people trying to get out of prison , but what about getting in ?
well , inside europe correspondents have spent a lot of time and effort doing just that . meet a man who spent years staying in prisons around the world to raise awareness on conditions facing inmates .
visit overcrowded british jails and stay over in the hippest prison hotel on the continent . inside europe reveals how concerns over issues such as education , healthcare and responsibility in prisons are as pressing in europe as they are anywhere else in the world . dw-world.de dw-world : interview : raising awareness on prison conditions a belgian author spent years staying in prisons around the world , encountering petty thieves , conmen and airplane hijackers .
he says providing inmates with a decent standard of care is important for society as a whole .
dw-world : the prison everyone wants to stay in it 's fair to say that most people try to avoid going to jail .
but in ljubljana , people from all over are practically lining up to get into one .
that 's because the prison in question has been converted into a hip hostel .
dw-world : britain suffering from prison overcrowding britain 's prisons are full to overflowing and cramped conditions have been blamed for record levels of prison suicides .
yet building even more prisons does n't appear to be the answer to the problem .
dw-world : fashion is helping italian prisoners ' futures thousands of prisoners worldwide are a silent source of cheap labor .
in italy , though , an entrepreneurial group of ex-cons is producing its own goods - loudly and proudly marketing them as " made in jail . "
dw-world : norwegian prison prepares inmates for the outside world the island of bastoy in the oslo fjord is one of europe 's most unusual prison facilities .
inmates there live and work in conditions that authorities hope will prepare them for a normal life after they get out .
dw-world : polish prisoners learn the ropes of television in poland , inmates and guards at a prison in the country 's northeast have decided to develop a local tv network .
the project is giving prisoners a new sense of worth and will also reach out to the local community .
dw-world : romanian prison choir enables whiff of freedom the women in targsor prison are offered a wide range of leisure activities .
but singing in the facility 's choir offers a ticket to the outside world - at least when the group is on tour .
audios and videos on the topic audio : download inside europe 's prison special here feedback feedback : have you visited any prisons ?
tell us about it !
please include your name and country in your reply . picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal - with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : newslink audio : audio : listen live © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group bbc news / south asia graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 un sanctions for pakistan group the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
e-mail this to a friend related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks one year on looking back witnesses and relatives recall horror of attacks hotel man ' moves on ' jewish boy 's new life security lessons background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen main suspect pleads guilty profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories pakistan province mourns attack afghan children ' die in fighting ' india uproar over abandoned match most popular stories now shared read watched / listened music therapy for tinnitus hope china opens ' women only ' car park the language of avatar revealed condoms ' too big ' for indian men avatar tops christmas box office most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened china executes briton over drugs china execution : international reaction us vows to hunt down jet plotters gay couple marries in argentina avatar tops christmas box office us man ' arrested ' in north korea obama condemns iran 's ' iron fist ' china opens ' women only ' car park tech changes ' outstrip ' netbooks music therapy for tinnitus hope most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' history girls ' craze in japan erosion threat to australian homes thousands evacuated in argentina floods one-minute world news argentine gay couple first to marry tear gas fired at protesters bomb in karachi kills at least 25 suicide attack on pakistan shias us vows to pursue plane plotters jade raised awareness of cancer most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis gaza voices views from both sides , a year after the conflict pain and fear pakistanis describe terror of year of attacks in pictures a year of highs and lows for the uk 's wildlife most popular now most popular now -pipe- 24,857 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks key stories main mumbai suspect pleads guilty shock and surprise in mumbai court excerpts from qasab 's confession profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab suspect 's tears and smirks mumbai warrants seek 22 suspects pakistan admits india attack link analysis and background police ' name gunmen ' mapping the key targets attacks as they happened will india 's overhaul work ?
pakistan scepticism eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video mumbai prosecutor ' surprised ' by plea cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories us sets marker on afghan corruption bodies of mumbai gunmen unburied india plans surge in solar power most popular stories now shared read watched / listened peru arrests ' human fat killers ' ' enzyme clue ' to breast tumours large hadron collider works again ' human fat traffickers ' arrested match-fix probe targets 200 games most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened large hadron collider works again italian sex scandal woman ' dead ' uk navy fires on ' spanish flag ' drug-resistant swine flu hits uk match-fix probe targets 200 games galileo 's lost body parts found body found in flood is missing pc israel halts stadium construction peru arrests ' human fat killers ' sears tower plot leader is jailed most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' human fat traffickers ' arrested excitement at ' big bang ' re-start oprah announces end of show aerial footage of flood damage one-minute world news amateur footage of lake district flooding affectionate cat distracts policeman tearful oprah on chat show 's end raf helicopter rescues flood victims commuter cat is star of bus route most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis water world filipino villages still deluged weeks after storms hit dangerous seas can eu 's taskforce defeat pirates off somalia coast ?
back to future ?
gavin hewitt on what new eu names signal most popular now most popular now -pipe- 38,129 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks attacker convicted surviving gunman guilty deadpan amid media frenzy deadlock over pakistan suspects key moments in case what it means for india background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories india strike over petrol prices many killed in afghan drug raid pakistan car bomb kills soldier most popular stories now shared read watched / listened snake bursts after gobbling gator untidy beds may keep us healthy one-minute world news arab culture explored at bluecoat earth 's gravity pictured in ' hd ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ex-eating champion arrested in us bp oil spill costs pass $ 3bn mark komorowski set for polish victory india strike over petrol prices snake bursts after gobbling gator sumo wrestler fired over gambling obama backs giant solar project apple admits iphone signal fault ss great britain : from seabed to national treasure china braces for riot anniversary most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened protests at launch of dramatic german viewing platform one-minute world news thousands celebrate at london pride boy celebrates his return to cuba speed-eater arrested in new york han welcome security forces japan may pick robots over immigrants scientists recreate python 's insides dolphin ' superpod ' spotted off skye frank sidebottom fans pay for funeral most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis promoting ' love ' music video builds unity in protest-hit thai capital mixed legacy how mohammed fadlallah was admired and reviled soul searching missionary lives and theological divides in malawi most popular now most popular now -pipe- 57,014 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 solar system full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks attacker convicted surviving gunman guilty deadpan amid media frenzy deadlock over pakistan suspects key moments in case what it means for india background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories nato 's afghan death toll mounts dalit murders death penalty dropped sri lanka cabinet meets in north most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nairobi bikers improve their own slum most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened diana dors sports car to be sold rise of the mamils -lrb- middle-aged men in lycra -rrb- obama plea for gulf coast tourism ' four dead ' in ny state shooting iraqi asylum seekers struggle to survive in sweden ' pakistan drone strike kills 12 ' pakistan says 20m hit by floods sun 's ' quiet period ' explained nairobi bikers improve their own slum jewel gang ' thief ' sent to japan most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened cctv of ' air steward 's emergency exit ' how to get a grip on your inbox pakistan says 20m hit by floods one-minute world news life on the edge : korogocho 's biker boys abu dhabi developer stoic despite slump a crisis of civilization ?
japan 's abandoned dog problem abu dhabi to open indoor theme park increase in abandoned kittens most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 40,457 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks attacker convicted surviving gunman guilty deadpan amid media frenzy deadlock over pakistan suspects key moments in case what it means for india background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories nato 's afghan death toll mounts dalit murders death penalty dropped sri lanka cabinet meets in north most popular stories now shared read watched / listened turkey country profile return to ' last great wilderness ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened peru battles killer vampire bats swede faces world-record $ 1m speeding penalty china examines milk powder ' premature puberty ' reports pakistan president zardari tries to ease flood anger india threatens to suspend blackberry by 31 august woman in nectar card row banned from every sainsbury 's concern over rising nhs ' mortgage bill ' moscow ' hiding heatstroke cases ' after death rate jumps home computers discover rare star france rounds up hundreds of roma most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened scanner uncovers river 's mystery objects unnamed page uk teenager finds fame in japan unnamed page europe 's changing holiday habits unnamed page picky eater : ' pasta is like live worms ' unnamed page full flash video on phones us schoolboy to visit north korea most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 51,129 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks attacker convicted surviving gunman guilty deadpan amid media frenzy deadlock over pakistan suspects key moments in case what it means for india background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories nato 's afghan death toll mounts dalit murders death penalty dropped sri lanka cabinet meets in north most popular stories now shared read watched / listened living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars bhutan 's happiness formula follow a fiver - from production to destruction most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ban shocked by pakistan flooding craigslist ' killer ' dies in jail diana dors sports car to be sold cbbc presenter hurt in pier leap spectators killed at us car race man , 19 , raped in county tyrone living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars japan faces second quarter falter ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam horrors faced by ' forgotten army ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened un chief 's sorrow at pakistan crisis obama takes a dip in gulf waters archive : princess anne 's first public appearance rare crocodiles snap at london move women dice with death on m6 veteran 's mission to burma jungle new species found in deep sea young thief caught on camera ' world 's biggest ' beaver dam found one-minute world news most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 36,957 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks attacker convicted surviving gunman guilty deadpan amid media frenzy deadlock over pakistan suspects key moments in case what it means for india background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories nato 's afghan death toll mounts dalit murders death penalty dropped sri lanka cabinet meets in north most popular stories now shared read watched / listened halal holidays in the sun most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened runaway train on london tube line teenage girl raped in city centre swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty germany in ' record ' 2.2 % growth peru battles killer vampire bats pakistan curbs independence day chinese set human domino record bodies found in south africa mine are picky eaters ' genes to blame ?
iran nuclear plant start date set most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news plane rolls into sea in brazil record dominoes toppled in one go how to get a grip on your inbox chinese set human domino record timelapse footage of night sky devastating power of china floods pakistan 's floods from the air pakistan 's flood survivors on the move world domino record set on tv most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 83,414 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks attacker convicted surviving gunman guilty deadpan amid media frenzy deadlock over pakistan suspects key moments in case what it means for india background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories nato 's afghan death toll mounts dalit murders death penalty dropped sri lanka cabinet meets in north most popular stories now shared read watched / listened italy country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened greek strikers clash with police us sues bp for clean-up damages hundreds held over russia riots icc names kenya violence suspects zuckerberg is time person of 2010 two police stabbed in west london facebook connections map the world spain-deaths man guilty of abuse jeopardy trial for supercomputer day in pictures : 15 december 2010 most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened greek strikers clash with police greek mp attacked by crowd greek protesters clash with police one-minute world news protesters confront greek police asylum ship founders on rocks nyc 's children of the world caught on camera snow storm strands vehicles in canada the changing nature of protest one-minute world news most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 101,543 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks attacker convicted surviving gunman guilty deadpan amid media frenzy deadlock over pakistan suspects key moments in case what it means for india background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories nato 's afghan death toll mounts dalit murders death penalty dropped sri lanka cabinet meets in north most popular stories now shared read watched / listened taliban targets : women , children , foreigners india country profile housing market in ' spring bounce ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened spectators killed at us car race taliban targets : women , children , foreigners japan cabinet shuns wwii shrine ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam russia ban on grain export begins in pictures : zurich 's dance parade celebrations as princess turns 60 un urges speedy aid for pakistan luxury jewellery stolen in raid childhood stress ' causes illness ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened archive : princess anne 's first public appearance princess anne on olympics and ageing haitian quake survivors six months on one-minute world news un chief calls for more pakistan aid ethiopia 's ancient rock churches young mexican matador claims record obama vows to ' restore ' gulf coast ' nostalgic ' philip glenister pakistan says 20m hit by floods most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 40,214 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks attacker convicted surviving gunman guilty deadpan amid media frenzy deadlock over pakistan suspects key moments in case what it means for india background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories nato 's afghan death toll mounts dalit murders death penalty dropped sri lanka cabinet meets in north most popular stories now shared read watched / listened keyboards ' dirtier than a toilet ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened iran stoning woman ' confesses ' brazil to record ufo sightings pakistani president in flood zone meteor spectacle ' set to dazzle ' man grows pea plant inside lung dying girl photographs criticised relic of ' original earth ' exposed mother and daughter found killed deadly fires rage on in portugal iraq ' not ready ' for us pull-out most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened uk teenager finds fame in japan saudi women photograph their world woman starts fight over chicken nuggets stinging jellyfish invade spanish coast full flash video on phones cameron pays tribute to beckham one-minute world news europe 's changing holiday habits how a tragedy unfolded in pakistan ' digi-bike ' aims to reduce crime most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 93,143 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- un sanctions for pakistan group british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages urdu hindi bengali pashto nepali tamil sinhala more page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version un sanctions for pakistan group the mumbai attacks left more than 170 people dead the un security council has added four leaders of a pakistani group to a list of people facing sanctions for links with al-qaeda and the taleban .
the leaders belong to the militant lashkar-e-taiba group which has been blamed for the recent mumbai attacks .
the four face an assets freeze , travel ban and arms embargo .
the security council panel also said that the charity jamaat-ud-dawa was a front for lashkar-e-taiba and subject to sanctions .
the four leaders of lashkar-e-taiba who have been added to the list by the panel are : muhammad saeed , whom the un names as the group 's leader ; zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi , described as lashkar 's chief of operations ; haji muhammad ashraf , its finance chief ; and mahmoud mohammad ahmed bahaziq , described as a financier for the group .
the us state department welcomed the move .
" these actions will limit the ability of known terrorists to travel , acquire weapons , plan , carry out or raise funds for new terrorist attacks , " it said in a statement .
pakistani police say they have been questioning two key lashkar-e-taiba militants , lakhvi and zarrar shah , in the city of multan .
but islamabad has said that any of its citizens believed to be involved in the attacks will be tried in pakistan .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor mumbai attacks attacker convicted surviving gunman guilty deadpan amid media frenzy deadlock over pakistan suspects key moments in case what it means for india background key targets a guide to the main locations targeted by the gunmen profile : mohammad ajmal amir qasab police ' name gunmen ' pakistan admits attack link attacks as they happened eyewitness accounts ' no value on life ' ' we barricaded the door ' ' they killed so many ' in video inside mumbai 's attacked jewish centre parade marks mumbai anniversary cctv of gun battle on night of attacks related internet links pakistani government indian prime minister 's office mumbai police the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south asia stories nato 's afghan death toll mounts dalit murders death penalty dropped sri lanka cabinet meets in north most popular stories now shared read watched / listened jellyfish attack destroys salmon who needs gigabit broadband ?
most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened several injured in istanbul blast what was jon stewart 's rally in washington all about ?
farewell to shanghai 's huge expo yemen holds student in bomb probe karzai criticises us-russia raid riot police disperse illegal rave ryanair ends belfast city flights miniature livers ' grown in lab ' honduras football attack kills 14 brazil to choose next president most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened sweden 's new luxury hotel high among the trees one-minute world news one-minute world news future of the mouse is up in the air museum for most famous belgian ' why we came to jon stewart 's rally ' obama 's news briefing in full norway 's night train with a difference korean family reunions go ahead more waste protest scuffles in italy most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 57,686 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links merlin strictly full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- special reports -pipe- at home with avant-garde syrian artist bbc news / special reports graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- 06:05 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 at home with avant-garde syrian artist syrian painter hala faisal talks about her life and some of the works which decorate her home and studio in damascus .
she is quite a well known figure on the syrian art scene , but says she has trouble putting her work on show , especially her renditions of the female nude .
just before recording this audio slideshow interview , hala announced that she was feeling pressured to leave the country and would travel to germany within the next few days .
she was distraught at the possibility that the surfaces of her home would get painted over .
click ' show captions ' for photograph information .
some images do not have captions .
read martin asser 's report on artistic and intellectual life in a state where freedom of expression is tightly controlled : life on the edge for syrian artists photographs by martin asser , interview by catherine miller .
slideshow production by paul kerley .
publication date 11 december 2008 .
more audio slideshows : the end of the great war kew 's beautiful buildings inspired by yiddish e-mail this to a friend search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' raise your game ' events warning bbc news / wales politics graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- magazine 06:45 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 ' raise your game ' events warning the assembly government has admitted it will have to " raise its game " for wales to become a serious player in the global market for major events .
a special unit could be set up to keep attracting high-profile events such as the fa cup final and ryder cup .
ministers admit relying on luck to land six fa cup finals and the personal investment of a leading businessman to secure golf 's biggest event .
a cabinet paper warns scotland already has its own events body with a budget .
it does not make it clear whether additional public money will be made available for the welsh strategy .
minsters are spending £ 3.5m a year on the ryder cup in newport between now and 2010 and £ 2m on the wales rally gb .
the report by deputy first minister ieuan wyn jones , states that the total contribution to next year 's ashes test at the swalec stadium in cardiff is £ 800,000 .
it praises the beijing olympics and ryder cup in kentucky over the summer for demonstrating " the powerful and irresistible force " that major events can provide in building " strong and confident nations " and instilling civic and national pride .
but the document warns that other parts of the uk have " well established and well funded organisational infrastructures in place " .
eventscotland enjoys a £ 5m annual budget on top of scottish government spending on the commonwealth games and ryder cup in 2014 .
the costs of staging these two events in scotland are estimated to be around £ 350m .
the paper acknowledges that wales has benefited recently from " a degree of serendipity and ' one-off ' factors such as the wembley stadium delays and by the individual investment by tycoon sir terry matthews in partnership with the assembly government in delivering a ryder cup for wales " .
the document argues a " more strategic approach is needed to supporting major events " .
this should be " underpinned by a coherent structure capable of maximising the return on out investments through a sustainable programme of events that deliver long term benefits to the people of wales ... "
under the plan , the major events unit -lrb- meu -rrb- would deal with three categories of event : • major events - with such scale and appeal that they attract big international audiences and media coverage .
the best examples suggested are an ashes test and european football championships . • signature events - described as " one time or more likely recurring events developed primarily to enhance the image and cultural identity of wales " .
the faenol festival and cardiff singer of the world are given as examples . • mega events - requiring a " major bidding effort " and a " high level of government resources at all stages " .
the paper says the ryder cup and commonwealth games are such events .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : tenth bryn-fest is ' under threat ' -lrb- 07 nov 08 -pipe- wales -rrb- england list full ashes schedule -lrb- 05 may 08 -pipe- england -rrb- sport events ' bring few benefits ' -lrb- 05 oct 06 -pipe- wales -rrb- wales ' best venue ' for sport -lrb- 14 jun 04 -pipe- wales -rrb- experts identify ryder cup effect -lrb- 08 jun 05 -pipe- wales -rrb- related internet links welsh assembly government eventscotland celtic manor resort ryder cup 2010 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' raise your game ' events warning british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:45 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version ' raise your game ' events warning the fa cup final , bryn terfel , who hosts the faenol festival and ryder cup are among past , present , and future events .
photos : pa / bbc / getty the assembly government has admitted it will have to " raise its game " for wales to become a serious player in the global market for major events .
a special unit could be set up to keep attracting high-profile events such as the fa cup final and ryder cup .
ministers admit relying on luck to land six fa cup finals and the personal investment of a leading businessman to secure golf 's biggest event .
a cabinet paper warns scotland already has its own events body with a budget .
it does not make it clear whether additional public money will be made available for the welsh strategy .
minsters are spending £ 3.5m a year on the ryder cup in newport between now and 2010 and £ 2m on the wales rally gb .
the report by deputy first minister ieuan wyn jones , states that the total contribution to next year 's ashes test at the swalec stadium in cardiff is £ 800,000 .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
it praises the beijing olympics and ryder cup in kentucky over the summer for demonstrating " the powerful and irresistible force " that major events can provide in building " strong and confident nations " and instilling civic and national pride .
but the document warns that other parts of the uk have " well established and well funded organisational infrastructures in place " .
eventscotland enjoys a £ 5m annual budget on top of scottish government spending on the commonwealth games and ryder cup in 2014 .
the costs of staging these two events in scotland are estimated to be around £ 350m .
the paper acknowledges that wales has benefited recently from " a degree of serendipity and ' one-off ' factors such as the wembley stadium delays and by the individual investment by tycoon sir terry matthews in partnership with the assembly government in delivering a ryder cup for wales " .
cardiff will host the first ashes test between england and australia next july the document argues a " more strategic approach is needed to supporting major events " .
this should be " underpinned by a coherent structure capable of maximising the return on out investments through a sustainable programme of events that deliver long term benefits to the people of wales ... "
under the plan , the major events unit -lrb- meu -rrb- would deal with three categories of event : • major events - with such scale and appeal that they attract big international audiences and media coverage .
the best examples suggested are an ashes test and european football championships . • signature events - described as " one time or more likely recurring events developed primarily to enhance the image and cultural identity of wales " .
the faenol festival and cardiff singer of the world are given as examples . • mega events - requiring a " major bidding effort " and a " high level of government resources at all stages " .
the paper says the ryder cup and commonwealth games are such events .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also tenth bryn-fest is ' under threat ' 07 nov 08 -pipe- wales england list full ashes schedule 05 may 08 -pipe- england sport events ' bring few benefits ' 05 oct 06 -pipe- wales wales ' best venue ' for sport 14 jun 04 -pipe- wales experts identify ryder cup effect 08 jun 05 -pipe- wales related internet links welsh assembly government eventscotland celtic manor resort ryder cup 2010 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories ' slowest ' ambulance 999 response cull ' to continue ' despite appeal pm referendum comment ' personal ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened is that woman pregnant or fat ?
slideshow : the farmer 's day feeling grumpy ' is good for you ' new powers target ' garden grabs ' tea ' healthier ' drink than water most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna study unlocks jewish diaspora bp shares plummet in us trading is that woman pregnant or fat ?
iran dismisses new un sanctions mexican father ' killed children ' ' suicide bomb ' at afghan wedding liberals ahead in dutch election degree costs ' burden on taxpayer ' ' abuse rife ' in tribal pakistan egypt city begins banning smoking most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan hollins ' world cup diary : shakira oil ' reaching florida shoreline ' one-minute world news bbc investigates iphone complaints snake found under van 's bonnet world cup warning for sex tourists speed sisters driving west bank change final big brother series starts obama says sanctions send ' unmistakable message ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis polar extinction ?
popular beer under nationalisation threat in venezuela party time 2010 the fun has begun even before the world cup united in grief uk shootings community remembers victims most popular now most popular now -pipe- 48,071 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' raise your game ' events warning accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:45 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version ' raise your game ' events warning the fa cup final , bryn terfel , who hosts the faenol festival and ryder cup are among past , present , and future events .
photos : pa / bbc / getty the assembly government has admitted it will have to " raise its game " for wales to become a serious player in the global market for major events .
a special unit could be set up to keep attracting high-profile events such as the fa cup final and ryder cup .
ministers admit relying on luck to land six fa cup finals and the personal investment of a leading businessman to secure golf 's biggest event .
a cabinet paper warns scotland already has its own events body with a budget .
it does not make it clear whether additional public money will be made available for the welsh strategy .
minsters are spending £ 3.5m a year on the ryder cup in newport between now and 2010 and £ 2m on the wales rally gb .
the report by deputy first minister ieuan wyn jones , states that the total contribution to next year 's ashes test at the swalec stadium in cardiff is £ 800,000 .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
it praises the beijing olympics and ryder cup in kentucky over the summer for demonstrating " the powerful and irresistible force " that major events can provide in building " strong and confident nations " and instilling civic and national pride .
but the document warns that other parts of the uk have " well established and well funded organisational infrastructures in place " .
eventscotland enjoys a £ 5m annual budget on top of scottish government spending on the commonwealth games and ryder cup in 2014 .
the costs of staging these two events in scotland are estimated to be around £ 350m .
the paper acknowledges that wales has benefited recently from " a degree of serendipity and ' one-off ' factors such as the wembley stadium delays and by the individual investment by tycoon sir terry matthews in partnership with the assembly government in delivering a ryder cup for wales " .
cardiff will host the first ashes test between england and australia next july the document argues a " more strategic approach is needed to supporting major events " .
this should be " underpinned by a coherent structure capable of maximising the return on out investments through a sustainable programme of events that deliver long term benefits to the people of wales ... "
under the plan , the major events unit -lrb- meu -rrb- would deal with three categories of event : • major events - with such scale and appeal that they attract big international audiences and media coverage .
the best examples suggested are an ashes test and european football championships . • signature events - described as " one time or more likely recurring events developed primarily to enhance the image and cultural identity of wales " .
the faenol festival and cardiff singer of the world are given as examples . • mega events - requiring a " major bidding effort " and a " high level of government resources at all stages " .
the paper says the ryder cup and commonwealth games are such events .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also tenth bryn-fest is ' under threat ' 07 nov 08 -pipe- wales england list full ashes schedule 05 may 08 -pipe- england sport events ' bring few benefits ' 05 oct 06 -pipe- wales wales ' best venue ' for sport 14 jun 04 -pipe- wales experts identify ryder cup effect 08 jun 05 -pipe- wales related internet links welsh assembly government eventscotland celtic manor resort ryder cup 2010 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories ' wide debate ' on care cost needed budget ' not helping in recession ' sports ' should be free-to-air ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' shackleton 's whisky to be dug up senegal colossus proves sore point mutant genes ' key to long life ' hypnosis has ' real ' brain effect most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened actor edward woodward dies at 79 plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' shackleton 's whisky to be dug up obama presses china over rights the child of auschwitz 's kommandant greenpeace ' to put humans first ' day in pictures bonham carter 's blyton adventure tuna body shies from fishing ban belle de jour drops her anonymity most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ghost trees ' haunt ' london square obama on relations with china actor edward woodward dies at 79 one-minute world news mafia boss arrested in sicily obama courts china on asia visit madoff auction raises $ 1m defra to challenge canal sale the pain of a ' forgotten australian ' obama presses for rights in china most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis roll call campaign to register world 's invisible children day in pictures striking images from around the world feminist icon ?
helena bonham carter takes on author enid blyton .
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 98,600 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' raise your game ' events warning british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:45 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version ' raise your game ' events warning the fa cup final , bryn terfel , who hosts the faenol festival and ryder cup are among past , present , and future events .
photos : pa / bbc / getty the assembly government has admitted it will have to " raise its game " for wales to become a serious player in the global market for major events .
a special unit could be set up to keep attracting high-profile events such as the fa cup final and ryder cup .
ministers admit relying on luck to land six fa cup finals and the personal investment of a leading businessman to secure golf 's biggest event .
a cabinet paper warns scotland already has its own events body with a budget .
it does not make it clear whether additional public money will be made available for the welsh strategy .
minsters are spending £ 3.5m a year on the ryder cup in newport between now and 2010 and £ 2m on the wales rally gb .
the report by deputy first minister ieuan wyn jones , states that the total contribution to next year 's ashes test at the swalec stadium in cardiff is £ 800,000 .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
it praises the beijing olympics and ryder cup in kentucky over the summer for demonstrating " the powerful and irresistible force " that major events can provide in building " strong and confident nations " and instilling civic and national pride .
but the document warns that other parts of the uk have " well established and well funded organisational infrastructures in place " .
eventscotland enjoys a £ 5m annual budget on top of scottish government spending on the commonwealth games and ryder cup in 2014 .
the costs of staging these two events in scotland are estimated to be around £ 350m .
the paper acknowledges that wales has benefited recently from " a degree of serendipity and ' one-off ' factors such as the wembley stadium delays and by the individual investment by tycoon sir terry matthews in partnership with the assembly government in delivering a ryder cup for wales " .
cardiff will host the first ashes test between england and australia next july the document argues a " more strategic approach is needed to supporting major events " .
this should be " underpinned by a coherent structure capable of maximising the return on out investments through a sustainable programme of events that deliver long term benefits to the people of wales ... "
under the plan , the major events unit -lrb- meu -rrb- would deal with three categories of event : • major events - with such scale and appeal that they attract big international audiences and media coverage .
the best examples suggested are an ashes test and european football championships . • signature events - described as " one time or more likely recurring events developed primarily to enhance the image and cultural identity of wales " .
the faenol festival and cardiff singer of the world are given as examples . • mega events - requiring a " major bidding effort " and a " high level of government resources at all stages " .
the paper says the ryder cup and commonwealth games are such events .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also tenth bryn-fest is ' under threat ' 07 nov 08 -pipe- wales england list full ashes schedule 05 may 08 -pipe- england sport events ' bring few benefits ' 05 oct 06 -pipe- wales wales ' best venue ' for sport 14 jun 04 -pipe- wales experts identify ryder cup effect 08 jun 05 -pipe- wales related internet links welsh assembly government eventscotland celtic manor resort ryder cup 2010 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories admission over nhs ' underfunding ' ams want muscular dystrophy cash school buildings cash criticism most popular stories now shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' regions and territories : puerto rico most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened huge ice sheet breaks from greenland glacier enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' foreign medical workers among 10 killed in afghanistan chinese minister blasts ' vulgar ' media us to charge £ 9 for travel permit woman shown her own rape on phone reykjavik 's mayor appears in drag pakistan on flooding ' red alert ' computer boss quits in sex probe the price of being single most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened unnamed page flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep on board the flight that bombed hiroshima ' poo-powered ' car hits the road unnamed page four baby bodies found in suitcases unnamed page unnamed page wine vending machines launch in us minute world news most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 43,186 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' raise your game ' events warning accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:45 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version ' raise your game ' events warning the fa cup final , bryn terfel , who hosts the faenol festival and ryder cup are among past , present , and future events .
photos : pa / bbc / getty the assembly government has admitted it will have to " raise its game " for wales to become a serious player in the global market for major events .
a special unit could be set up to keep attracting high-profile events such as the fa cup final and ryder cup .
ministers admit relying on luck to land six fa cup finals and the personal investment of a leading businessman to secure golf 's biggest event .
a cabinet paper warns scotland already has its own events body with a budget .
it does not make it clear whether additional public money will be made available for the welsh strategy .
minsters are spending £ 3.5m a year on the ryder cup in newport between now and 2010 and £ 2m on the wales rally gb .
the report by deputy first minister ieuan wyn jones , states that the total contribution to next year 's ashes test at the swalec stadium in cardiff is £ 800,000 .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
it praises the beijing olympics and ryder cup in kentucky over the summer for demonstrating " the powerful and irresistible force " that major events can provide in building " strong and confident nations " and instilling civic and national pride .
but the document warns that other parts of the uk have " well established and well funded organisational infrastructures in place " .
eventscotland enjoys a £ 5m annual budget on top of scottish government spending on the commonwealth games and ryder cup in 2014 .
the costs of staging these two events in scotland are estimated to be around £ 350m .
the paper acknowledges that wales has benefited recently from " a degree of serendipity and ' one-off ' factors such as the wembley stadium delays and by the individual investment by tycoon sir terry matthews in partnership with the assembly government in delivering a ryder cup for wales " .
cardiff will host the first ashes test between england and australia next july the document argues a " more strategic approach is needed to supporting major events " .
this should be " underpinned by a coherent structure capable of maximising the return on out investments through a sustainable programme of events that deliver long term benefits to the people of wales ... "
under the plan , the major events unit -lrb- meu -rrb- would deal with three categories of event : • major events - with such scale and appeal that they attract big international audiences and media coverage .
the best examples suggested are an ashes test and european football championships . • signature events - described as " one time or more likely recurring events developed primarily to enhance the image and cultural identity of wales " .
the faenol festival and cardiff singer of the world are given as examples . • mega events - requiring a " major bidding effort " and a " high level of government resources at all stages " .
the paper says the ryder cup and commonwealth games are such events .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also tenth bryn-fest is ' under threat ' 07 nov 08 -pipe- wales england list full ashes schedule 05 may 08 -pipe- england sport events ' bring few benefits ' 05 oct 06 -pipe- wales wales ' best venue ' for sport 14 jun 04 -pipe- wales experts identify ryder cup effect 08 jun 05 -pipe- wales related internet links welsh assembly government eventscotland celtic manor resort ryder cup 2010 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories badger cull decision ' perverse ' tanni 's ' scary ' peerage interview call for troops to be withdrawn most popular stories now shared read watched / listened peanut allergy ' cure ' put to test singing ' rewires ' damaged brain frog reveals secret of monogamy beer with 32 % strength launched ghostly ' dance of a sea dragon ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan iran warning over ' persian gulf ' man in hiding betrayed by pet dog swiss man surrenders to libyans odeon confirms wonderland boycott threat from e-waste ' mountains ' ' if we crash , the whole company goes down ' day in pictures eu condemns dubai passport plot afghanistan condemns nato strike most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany one-minute world news close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music israeli drone ' can reach iran ' ' shock and distress ' in madeira fresh madeira landslide warning space shuttle endeavour lands portugal to mourn madeira victims ' scene of absolute devastation ' highlights from the bafta awards most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis lives in our hands lufthansa pilot on why his colleagues are striking day in pictures some striking images from around the world avatar v hurt battle of the exes : an oscar rival for the 3d juggernaut ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 98,357 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- town 's most prolific cat burglar accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:01 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 town 's most prolific cat burglar please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement a cat in swindon has become a real cat burglar , in the last year he has stolen more than 30 teddies .
frankie 's owner thinks he has been sneaking into neighbours ' houses to take the loot from their pets , and says he is always very proud of what he brings back .
see also shoplifting seagull caught on camera -lrb- 01.01 -rrb- brazil 's pigeon drug mules -lrb- 00.20 -rrb- ' britain 's biggest bullock ' weighs in -lrb- 00.43 -rrb- cat burglar strikes again -lrb- 01.43 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio first a380 lands in new york cheers greet lhc restart window cleaner survives fall excitement at ' big bang ' re-start who is mr van rompuy ?
editor 's choice newsreaders ' dance for charity helena christensen : behind the camera astute sub arrives at faslane oprah announces the end of her show 20 years of tv in the commons skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- town 's most prolific cat burglar accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:01 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 town 's most prolific cat burglar please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement a cat in swindon has become a real cat burglar , in the last year he has stolen more than 30 teddies .
frankie 's owner thinks he has been sneaking into neighbours ' houses to take the loot from their pets , and says he is always very proud of what he brings back .
see also shoplifting seagull caught on camera -lrb- 01.01 -rrb- brazil 's pigeon drug mules -lrb- 00.20 -rrb- ' britain 's biggest bullock ' weighs in -lrb- 00.43 -rrb- cat burglar strikes again -lrb- 01.43 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio ' history girls ' craze in japan sheen 911 phone call released execution ' barbaric ' say campaigners china warns uk over execution outcry erosion threat to australian homes editor 's choice brooke sheen 's 911 phone call released making a living from a mountain of rubbish new yorkers mark ' good riddance day ' ' history girls ' craze in japan thousands evacuated in argentina floods skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- science & environment -pipe- baby gorilla born at us zoo accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:05 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 baby gorilla born at us zoo please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement the first baby gorilla to be born at san francisco zoo in a decade is being tended by veterinary staff .
mother monifa gave birth to the male on monday but left the gorilla unattended , and avoided eye contact .
a veterinary team has stepped in to ensure the young gorilla , which is yet to be named , receives all the care he needs .
first broadcast 11th december 2008 see also zoo hails pygmy hippo birth -lrb- 00.58 -rrb- la 's zoo starved of cash -lrb- 02.19 -rrb- rare white lion cubs born -lrb- 01.01 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio one-minute world news aceh five years since the tsunami science explained : greenhouse effect in a bottle five minutes with : amanda holden indian airforce 's helicopter display editor 's choice kercher family ' pleased ' with verdicts aceh five years since the tsunami amanda holden 's ' oscar acceptance speech ' indian airforce 's helicopter stunts new home for gorilla orphans skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say bbc news / northern ireland graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
e-mail this to a friend related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem seychelles haven of the giant tortoise most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem arizona shooting suspect charged how giffords survived the shot scores killed in iran plane crash brazil warns of global trade war undercover officer switches sides virgin ' wo n't pay ' fees over snow fury over doctor 's book on sex education for muslims rihanna makes history in uk chart beckhams expecting fourth child most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' i played dead to escape gunman ' what do we mean by currency wars ?
surgeon ' cautiously optimistic ' examining the political fallout from arizona shooting nelson mandela freed from prison polar bear 's stealthy seal hunt 911 tape of arizona shooting released microsoft hints at kinect pc support eyewitness : ' bullet holes in windows ' one-minute world news most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 22,671 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories lorry fires closes m1 motorway assault ' sectarian hate crime ' book of condolence for gerry ryan most popular stories now shared read watched / listened dating by blood type in japan fat americans a ' security threat ' us warns of delhi attack threat israeli man is kidnapped in ghana hundreds strip off in lowry shoot most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' hundreds strip off in lowry shoot weather hampers us oil clean-up us protests over immigration law fat americans a ' security threat ' escort girl claims cast cloud over french football bolivia takes over energy firms us navy asked to share sub detail in pictures : may day rallies protesters confront greek police most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened nude volunteers pose for art shoot inmates could help oil clean-up five minutes with : amy williams naked crowd gathers for climate change one-minute world news nudes pose at irish castle arizona immigration law protests greek riot police clash with protesters tightrope walker claims new world record no food or water for 70 years ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis elusive peace fearful times as militants regroup in swat valley blow the whistle call-girl 's claims cast cloud over french football in pictures demonstrators mark may day around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 40,014 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who election 2010 formula 1 a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories uda set to confirm weapons dumped mp faces copyright breach claims gritting costs £ 150,000 a night most popular stories now shared read watched / listened pi calculated to ' record number ' is this the world 's smartest dog ?
your pictures : more snow across the uk study challenges me ' virus link ' runaway pig sparks road chase most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened snow disrupts schools and travel japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat pornographic videos flood youtube obama given intelligence pledge pi calculated to ' record number ' australia downplays india warning google phone to protect ad empire atom bomb survivor dies , aged 93 china rejects iran un sanctions explosive planted in airport test most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened is this the world 's smartest dog ?
runaway pig sparks road chase us state reviews shackling laws swiss avalanche death toll rises viewers ' videos of snow scenes porn videos floods youtube aerial view of the snow europe ' will continue to shiver ' snow forces mountain rescues in japan one-minute world news most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland empire protection why google needs a new mobile phone most popular now most popular now -pipe- 96,671 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened mass polish reburial of war dead most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened church defiant over koran stunt good dancing link to male health castro criticises iranian leader afghan dancing boys sexually abused philippines massacre trial opens girl , 14 , raped during park walk bp due to publish oil leak report powerful tremor rattles nz city cameron to miss pm 's questions free rice game gets social boost most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened good and bad dancing put to test one-minute world news trapped miners watch football match angelina jolie visits pakistan pressure mounts against koran burning putin weighing up presidency bid louisiana feels impact of drilling moratorium religious leaders unite against koran burning belgian pm on eurozone integration taliban disguised as us troops most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 179,486 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links battle of britain pakistan floods full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened how far can a 100-word vocabulary get you ?
bahrain hospital on the front line most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libya foreign minister ' defects ' japan to scrap stricken reactors guard arrested near 2012 stadium ivorian fighters ' take capital ' taking space travel to the masses the art of the perfect prank royal weddings of the past israel ' given argentina pledge ' libya and mid-east crisis as it happened : wednesday baidu deletes 2.8m online works most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened inside the virgin galactic spaceship noisy trousers create jeans beat reagan ' a fetish object for the far right ' one-minute world news bbc reporter on the frontlines in libya the sxsw geeks who love to tinker boy , 8 , gets a in a-level maths joy and despair after cricket epic a good time to visit the middle east ?
new storage concepts for portable tech most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 26,429 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened lab-grown urethra ' world first ' full face transplant for us man daniel o 'donnell breaks uk chart record for album sales hobbit filming finally under way most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened tripoli targeted for third night new smoke seen at japan reactor live : libya crisis physics predicts end of religion what chance of a ' big one ' in tokyo ?
full face transplant for us man hobbit filming finally under way russian leaders spar over libya us ' to tone down role in libya ' israel launches gaza air strikes most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened first full face transplant in us raf typhoon jets head to libya libya : gaddafi 's war of words tsunami children hunt for parents rebels visit coalition attack site new footage : japan tsunami at sea one-minute world news tsunami floodgate ' did not work ' footage of moment tsunami hit japan ' veggie ' spider caught on camera most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 37,029 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories car bomb explodes at courthouse man held over ' rape ' at town bar petrol bombs thrown at city house most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man in hiding betrayed by pet dog topless tobogganing in germany frog reveals secret of monogamy car bomb explodes at courthouse ba cabin crew back strike action most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog day in pictures guilty plea in new york bomb plot us ' closes in on google hackers ' tv man gave up dead lover 's name odeon confirms wonderland boycott car bomb explodes at courthouse dozens killed in peru bus crash swiss man surrenders to libyans most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver one-minute world news close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music fresh madeira landslide warning father on false paedophilia facebook posts israeli-born face deportation bafta red carpet highlights highlights from the bafta awards ' shock and distress ' in madeira most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers day in pictures eye-catching images from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 38,500 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories ira bomber held over base murders dog breeders slam puppy farms final raf flight leaves ni base most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man killed wife ' during a dream ' tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' meteor shower provides sky show ' ex-nazi ' charged with 58 murders meditation ' eases heart disease ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened us raps israeli settlement plan man killed wife ' during a dream ' earth ' heading for 6c ' of warming french ' school shooting foiled ' ' ex-nazi ' charged with 58 murders taliban leader ' flees pakistan ' day in pictures high alert for egypt-algeria tie t-mobile staff sold personal data lhc nears restart after repairs most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened somalia still top of corruption list antarctic ice traps cruise ship floods and mudslides hit tenerife one-minute world news mexico 's most dangerous city army 's new night vision equipment simon 's cat creator on web hit street fighting in taliban bases tour of world 's fastest steam car prague marks velvet revolution most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis in pictures prague marks 20th anniversary of the ' velvet revolution ' earth watch climate treaty explores the meaning of ' binding ' day in pictures striking images from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 67,486 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- what the papers say british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:09 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version what the papers say journalist fionola meredith takes a look at what is making the headlines in thursday 's morning papers .
concerns over the proposed northern ireland bill of rights are the top story in the irish news , with the claim that the legislation could keep teenage murderers out of jail .
the final draft of the bill recommends that criminals under the age of 18 should only go to prison as " a last resort " .
and the paper claims that judges would have to prove they had explored every other means of punishment before sending anyone under 18 to jail .
columnist newton emerson is scathing about the proposed bill .
describing it as " a litany of provincial special pleading " , he insists that there is no hope of the bill ever making it into law , let alone practice .
but it 's the so-called " snub " to x factor darling eoghan quigg 's headmistress that has really got the irish news going .
anne sands , who the paper describes as one of young quigg 's " most prominent backers " , is reportedly seething after she did n't get an invitation to the x factor final .
but it turns out that she 's not the only one left ticketless .
a spokeswoman for the show said they had to turn bob geldof down , and that tickets for the final were like gold dust .
sos over at the news letter , it 's gordon brown 's " unexpected u-turn " concerning ira victims seeking compensation from libya that makes the lead .
following discussions with a victims delegation , led by dup mp nigel dodds and labour mp andrew mckinlay , the prime minister indicated that he would , after all , lend diplomatic assistance to the victims ' cause .
and the belfast telegraph reports on what it calls a " desperate sos for organ donors " that went out on wednesday , after it emerged that more than 300 people across northern ireland urgently need a transplant .
apparently the uk has one of the lowest donation rates in europe , and here in northern ireland only 23 % of people are on the donor register , making it the third lowest region in the uk .
the lisbon treaty raises its troublesome head again in the irish times , with the prospect of a second referendum to be held before 31st october 2009 .
draft conclusions , expected to be signed off by eu leaders on thursday , would allow each member state to retain their commissioner .
the paper says they would also give ireland legal guarantees on taxation policy ; family , social and ethical issues ; and security and defence policy .
tv chef nigella lawson has fallen foul of animal rights activists , after suggesting she would kill a bear and wear its skin as a trophy , reports the daily express .
nigella 's publicist has stepped quickly into the row , clarifying that she was talking about a situation where if it was the bear or nigella , she would kill the bear - but not if she was unprovoked .
and finally , if you 're a lonely single man looking to impress a potential partner , the guardian has just the thing - it 's got the top 10 reads likely to wow the ladies .
the survey , commissioned by the national year of reading , found that top of the list is nelson mandela 's autobiography , long walk to freedom .
shakespeare 's also a winner , and be sure to drop in that you love reading poetry and cookery books .
it turns out , though , that almost half of the people surveyed were teenagers .
so now we know that top of the list to impress a teenage girl are internet social sites facebook and myspace , followed by text messages , song lyrics and harry potter .
jane austen does squeeze in at number seven though .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links the irish news the news letter the irish times the mirror the sun the guardian the daily telegraph the independent the times the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened defecating dog sparks us shootout sa ' mugger ' baboon to be put down a new way to look at radiation botanic gardens ' invasives ' role libya no-fly zone : coalition firepower most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan rebels recapture key town sea radioactive near japan plant live : libya and mid-east crisis the muammar gaddafi story thousands begin anti-cuts march yemen leader ' negotiating exit ' us beauty queen wins ' fat ' case gaddafi may seek revenge - clarke new protests flare in syria towns defecating dog sparks us shootout most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan rebels ' recapture ' ajdabiya the sxsw geeks who love to tinker one-minute world news tsunami victims vow never to return raf tornados strike libyan tank targets ' there is an alternative ' , says balls thousands turn out for anti-cuts march libya rebels recapture ajdabiya carol 's saucy slip of the tongue !
ivory coast : ' a million ' refugees most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 81,486 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- study links diabetes and coeliac british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:24 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version study links diabetes and coeliac gluten , which causes coeliac disease , is a staple of foods such as pasta type 1 diabetes and the food intolerance disorder coeliac disease appear to share a common genetic origin , uk research suggests .
the genetic similarities are such it suggests they may also be triggered by similar environmental factors .
this raises the possibility that the protein gluten , already known to cause coeliac disease , may also trigger type 1 diabetes .
the study appears in the new england journal of medicine .
type 1 diabetes caused by immune system destroying insulin-producing cells in the pancreas strikes suddenly and without warning , usually in childhood and remains for life multiple daily insulin injections and blood tests are essential just to stay alive complications can include blindness , limb amputations , kidney failure , heart disease and strokes type 1 diabetes causes the body to attack the beta cells of the pancreas , limiting its ability to produce the insulin necessary to regulate blood sugar levels .
in contrast coeliac disease attacks the small intestine .
however , both conditions are the result of a malfunctioning immune system .
in addition , the development and anatomy of the small intestine and pancreas are closely related , and the gut immune system shares connections with pancreatic lymph nodes , which have been linked to an inflammation of the pancreas and the destruction of beta cells .
the researchers , from the university of cambridge and barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry , analysed nearly 20,000 tissue samples to look for genetic similarities between the two conditions .
regulatory role they identified seven chromosome regions which are shared between the two diseases .
the key regions are thought to regulate the mechanisms that cause the body 's own immune system to attack both the beta cells in the pancreas and the small intestine .
coeliac disease caused by gluten , a protein found in wheat , rye and barley , and a staple of bread , pasta , cereals , cakes and biscuits symptoms can include bloating , abdominal pain , nausea , constipation , diarrhoea , wind , tiredness , anaemia , headaches , mouth ulcers , recurrent miscarriages , weight loss , skin problems , depression , joint or bone pain and nerve problems estimated to affect one in 100 people in the uk - but onlye one in eight of those has been diagnosed the researchers said more work was needed to pinpoint how genetic and environmental factors combined to trigger the conditions .
the researchers stressed the interaction was likely to be complex , but suggested that the same sort of environmental factors were likely to trigger both conditions .
in the paper , they write : " our results support further evaluation of the hypothesis that cereal and gluten consumption might be an environmental factor in type 1 diabetes , leading to the alteration of the function of the gut immune system and its relationship with the pancreatic immune system . "
researcher professor david van heel said : " these findings suggest common mechanisms causing both coeliac and type 1 diabetes - we did not expect to see this very high degree of shared genetic risk factors . "
karen addington , of the juvenile diabetes research foundation , which helped fund the study , " these studies demonstrate that type 1 diabetes and coeliac disease share far greater genetic overlap than had been appreciated ; which helps explain the high prevalence of both conditions occurring simultaneously in an individual and may provide new avenues for understanding the cause and mechanisms of both conditions . "
sarah sleet , of the charity coeliac uk , described the research as a real advance in understanding a condition which is thought to do undiagnosed in many people .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links juvenile diabetes research foundation coeliac uk new england journal of medicine university of cambridge barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened italy country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened wikileaks : castro ' nearly died ' europe to rule on irish abortion us sues bp over gulf oil disaster niemeyer still designing at 103 us ' birther ' officer found guilty house passes gay military repeal rest of uk ' face scots fee rise ' tokyo passes manga restrictions china pm begins india trade trip drone attack ' kills two britons ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened arctic blast covers lighthouse in ice gunman opens fire at school meeting one-minute world news farewell to iconic raf aircraft nyc 's children of the world caught on camera uk prepares for arctic blast how to fly a harrier jump jet asylum ship founders on rocks ' going ape ' about new tablet devices zoo welcomes new baby okapi most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 21,471 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- study links diabetes and coeliac british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:24 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version study links diabetes and coeliac gluten , which causes coeliac disease , is a staple of foods such as pasta type 1 diabetes and the food intolerance disorder coeliac disease appear to share a common genetic origin , uk research suggests .
the genetic similarities are such it suggests they may also be triggered by similar environmental factors .
this raises the possibility that the protein gluten , already known to cause coeliac disease , may also trigger type 1 diabetes .
the study appears in the new england journal of medicine .
type 1 diabetes caused by immune system destroying insulin-producing cells in the pancreas strikes suddenly and without warning , usually in childhood and remains for life multiple daily insulin injections and blood tests are essential just to stay alive complications can include blindness , limb amputations , kidney failure , heart disease and strokes type 1 diabetes causes the body to attack the beta cells of the pancreas , limiting its ability to produce the insulin necessary to regulate blood sugar levels .
in contrast coeliac disease attacks the small intestine .
however , both conditions are the result of a malfunctioning immune system .
in addition , the development and anatomy of the small intestine and pancreas are closely related , and the gut immune system shares connections with pancreatic lymph nodes , which have been linked to an inflammation of the pancreas and the destruction of beta cells .
the researchers , from the university of cambridge and barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry , analysed nearly 20,000 tissue samples to look for genetic similarities between the two conditions .
regulatory role they identified seven chromosome regions which are shared between the two diseases .
the key regions are thought to regulate the mechanisms that cause the body 's own immune system to attack both the beta cells in the pancreas and the small intestine .
coeliac disease caused by gluten , a protein found in wheat , rye and barley , and a staple of bread , pasta , cereals , cakes and biscuits symptoms can include bloating , abdominal pain , nausea , constipation , diarrhoea , wind , tiredness , anaemia , headaches , mouth ulcers , recurrent miscarriages , weight loss , skin problems , depression , joint or bone pain and nerve problems estimated to affect one in 100 people in the uk - but onlye one in eight of those has been diagnosed the researchers said more work was needed to pinpoint how genetic and environmental factors combined to trigger the conditions .
the researchers stressed the interaction was likely to be complex , but suggested that the same sort of environmental factors were likely to trigger both conditions .
in the paper , they write : " our results support further evaluation of the hypothesis that cereal and gluten consumption might be an environmental factor in type 1 diabetes , leading to the alteration of the function of the gut immune system and its relationship with the pancreatic immune system . "
researcher professor david van heel said : " these findings suggest common mechanisms causing both coeliac and type 1 diabetes - we did not expect to see this very high degree of shared genetic risk factors . "
karen addington , of the juvenile diabetes research foundation , which helped fund the study , " these studies demonstrate that type 1 diabetes and coeliac disease share far greater genetic overlap than had been appreciated ; which helps explain the high prevalence of both conditions occurring simultaneously in an individual and may provide new avenues for understanding the cause and mechanisms of both conditions . "
sarah sleet , of the charity coeliac uk , described the research as a real advance in understanding a condition which is thought to do undiagnosed in many people .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links juvenile diabetes research foundation coeliac uk new england journal of medicine university of cambridge barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened albino african seeks spain asylum gulf of mexico oil spill most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened naomi campbell said taylor sent diamond : mia farrow germany closes 9/11 plot mosque death rate doubles in moscow as heatwave continues apple iphone boss leaves company oscar-winning actress patricia neal dies at 84 turkey groom kills wedding guests naked rollercoaster ' record broken ' in essex audio slideshow : coughs and sneezes ...
pakistan floods could swamp sindh amazon adventure : ed stafford 's trek from source to sea most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river model ' said taylor sent diamond ' tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse carole white testifies at hague pakistan military delivers food to survivors iraq 's rare wild animal trade one-minute world news one-minute world news close-up : peru 's beer-drinking ritual close-up : argentina 's football rivalry most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 107,729 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- study links diabetes and coeliac british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:24 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version study links diabetes and coeliac gluten , which causes coeliac disease , is a staple of foods such as pasta type 1 diabetes and the food intolerance disorder coeliac disease appear to share a common genetic origin , uk research suggests .
the genetic similarities are such it suggests they may also be triggered by similar environmental factors .
this raises the possibility that the protein gluten , already known to cause coeliac disease , may also trigger type 1 diabetes .
the study appears in the new england journal of medicine .
type 1 diabetes caused by immune system destroying insulin-producing cells in the pancreas strikes suddenly and without warning , usually in childhood and remains for life multiple daily insulin injections and blood tests are essential just to stay alive complications can include blindness , limb amputations , kidney failure , heart disease and strokes type 1 diabetes causes the body to attack the beta cells of the pancreas , limiting its ability to produce the insulin necessary to regulate blood sugar levels .
in contrast coeliac disease attacks the small intestine .
however , both conditions are the result of a malfunctioning immune system .
in addition , the development and anatomy of the small intestine and pancreas are closely related , and the gut immune system shares connections with pancreatic lymph nodes , which have been linked to an inflammation of the pancreas and the destruction of beta cells .
the researchers , from the university of cambridge and barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry , analysed nearly 20,000 tissue samples to look for genetic similarities between the two conditions .
regulatory role they identified seven chromosome regions which are shared between the two diseases .
the key regions are thought to regulate the mechanisms that cause the body 's own immune system to attack both the beta cells in the pancreas and the small intestine .
coeliac disease caused by gluten , a protein found in wheat , rye and barley , and a staple of bread , pasta , cereals , cakes and biscuits symptoms can include bloating , abdominal pain , nausea , constipation , diarrhoea , wind , tiredness , anaemia , headaches , mouth ulcers , recurrent miscarriages , weight loss , skin problems , depression , joint or bone pain and nerve problems estimated to affect one in 100 people in the uk - but onlye one in eight of those has been diagnosed the researchers said more work was needed to pinpoint how genetic and environmental factors combined to trigger the conditions .
the researchers stressed the interaction was likely to be complex , but suggested that the same sort of environmental factors were likely to trigger both conditions .
in the paper , they write : " our results support further evaluation of the hypothesis that cereal and gluten consumption might be an environmental factor in type 1 diabetes , leading to the alteration of the function of the gut immune system and its relationship with the pancreatic immune system . "
researcher professor david van heel said : " these findings suggest common mechanisms causing both coeliac and type 1 diabetes - we did not expect to see this very high degree of shared genetic risk factors . "
karen addington , of the juvenile diabetes research foundation , which helped fund the study , " these studies demonstrate that type 1 diabetes and coeliac disease share far greater genetic overlap than had been appreciated ; which helps explain the high prevalence of both conditions occurring simultaneously in an individual and may provide new avenues for understanding the cause and mechanisms of both conditions . "
sarah sleet , of the charity coeliac uk , described the research as a real advance in understanding a condition which is thought to do undiagnosed in many people .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links juvenile diabetes research foundation coeliac uk new england journal of medicine university of cambridge barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened untidy beds may keep us healthy most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened japan marks atom bomb anniversary india minister breaks his silence why have the northern lights moved south ?
wyclef jean files election papers cameron and zardari to hold talks italy on the brink of new nuclear era us demands wikileaks return files rape charge pianist leaves shows saudi arabia blackberry ban due bp cements damaged gulf oil well most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened wyclef on his presidential ambitions one-minute world news wine vending machines launch in us monty python team caught on early home video police ' smash pensioner 's car ' ceremony to mark hiroshima 65 years on ' poo-powered ' car hits the road ' i saw a few dirty looking stones ' exploding star ' viewed in 3d ' where has all the oil gone ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 54,686 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- study links diabetes and coeliac british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:24 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version study links diabetes and coeliac gluten , which causes coeliac disease , is a staple of foods such as pasta type 1 diabetes and the food intolerance disorder coeliac disease appear to share a common genetic origin , uk research suggests .
the genetic similarities are such it suggests they may also be triggered by similar environmental factors .
this raises the possibility that the protein gluten , already known to cause coeliac disease , may also trigger type 1 diabetes .
the study appears in the new england journal of medicine .
type 1 diabetes caused by immune system destroying insulin-producing cells in the pancreas strikes suddenly and without warning , usually in childhood and remains for life multiple daily insulin injections and blood tests are essential just to stay alive complications can include blindness , limb amputations , kidney failure , heart disease and strokes type 1 diabetes causes the body to attack the beta cells of the pancreas , limiting its ability to produce the insulin necessary to regulate blood sugar levels .
in contrast coeliac disease attacks the small intestine .
however , both conditions are the result of a malfunctioning immune system .
in addition , the development and anatomy of the small intestine and pancreas are closely related , and the gut immune system shares connections with pancreatic lymph nodes , which have been linked to an inflammation of the pancreas and the destruction of beta cells .
the researchers , from the university of cambridge and barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry , analysed nearly 20,000 tissue samples to look for genetic similarities between the two conditions .
regulatory role they identified seven chromosome regions which are shared between the two diseases .
the key regions are thought to regulate the mechanisms that cause the body 's own immune system to attack both the beta cells in the pancreas and the small intestine .
coeliac disease caused by gluten , a protein found in wheat , rye and barley , and a staple of bread , pasta , cereals , cakes and biscuits symptoms can include bloating , abdominal pain , nausea , constipation , diarrhoea , wind , tiredness , anaemia , headaches , mouth ulcers , recurrent miscarriages , weight loss , skin problems , depression , joint or bone pain and nerve problems estimated to affect one in 100 people in the uk - but onlye one in eight of those has been diagnosed the researchers said more work was needed to pinpoint how genetic and environmental factors combined to trigger the conditions .
the researchers stressed the interaction was likely to be complex , but suggested that the same sort of environmental factors were likely to trigger both conditions .
in the paper , they write : " our results support further evaluation of the hypothesis that cereal and gluten consumption might be an environmental factor in type 1 diabetes , leading to the alteration of the function of the gut immune system and its relationship with the pancreatic immune system . "
researcher professor david van heel said : " these findings suggest common mechanisms causing both coeliac and type 1 diabetes - we did not expect to see this very high degree of shared genetic risk factors . "
karen addington , of the juvenile diabetes research foundation , which helped fund the study , " these studies demonstrate that type 1 diabetes and coeliac disease share far greater genetic overlap than had been appreciated ; which helps explain the high prevalence of both conditions occurring simultaneously in an individual and may provide new avenues for understanding the cause and mechanisms of both conditions . "
sarah sleet , of the charity coeliac uk , described the research as a real advance in understanding a condition which is thought to do undiagnosed in many people .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor related internet links juvenile diabetes research foundation coeliac uk new england journal of medicine university of cambridge barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened the battle for berlin 's gardens inside castro 's revolutionary hideout most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened turkey groom kills wedding guests rescuers sent to landslide victims in north-west china robbie williams weds ayda field world sauna event finalist dies the battle for berlin 's gardens couple murdered on pakistan trip north korea ' holds southern boat ' flash floods hit central europe no 10 rejects child milk cut idea duchess tries to avoid bankruptcy most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river unnamed page ' a river of mud ' in gansu province unnamed page flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep ' unaccustomed ' debate on race sparked in brazil panda twins ' settling in well ' greek traditions live on in tarpon springs , florida unnamed page close-up : austria 's teenage ballroom dancers most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 56,171 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories boy , 14 , injured in gang attack quays outlet centre ' doing well ' arrest after man struck by lorry most popular stories now shared read watched / listened turkey country profile return to ' last great wilderness ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened peru battles killer vampire bats swede faces world-record $ 1m speeding penalty china examines milk powder ' premature puberty ' reports pakistan president zardari tries to ease flood anger india threatens to suspend blackberry by 31 august woman in nectar card row banned from every sainsbury 's concern over rising nhs ' mortgage bill ' moscow ' hiding heatstroke cases ' after death rate jumps home computers discover rare star france rounds up hundreds of roma most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened scanner uncovers river 's mystery objects unnamed page insider guide : the great migration to open air swimming unnamed page women dice with death on m6 car bomb rocks colombian capital how a tragedy unfolded in pakistan eu economies ' not out of woods ' unnamed page greek gdp shrinks a further 1.5 % most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 37,800 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories man found dead in bungalow fire zara phillips sets wedding date study says tip emissions ' safe ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened how far can a 100-word vocabulary get you ?
bahrain hospital on the front line most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libya foreign minister ' defects ' japan to scrap stricken reactors the art of the perfect prank ivorian fighters ' take capital ' taking space travel to the masses royal weddings of the past joy and despair after cricket epic libya and mid-east crisis as it happened : wednesday obama sets out energy future libyan army adopts rebel tactics most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened noisy trousers create jeans beat inside the virgin galactic spaceship joy and despair after cricket epic a good time to visit the middle east ?
reagan ' a fetish object for the far right ' olga kotelko : the 91-year-old track star shares in tokyo electric tumble gaga hits carlisle and more news one-minute world news virgin galactic testing underway most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 28,143 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories drivers warned of heavy snowfall police identify crash death boy wild boar cull is given go ahead most popular stories now shared read watched / listened g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' bbc news - in pictures : snow spreads over uk view from the top of world 's tallest building india 's bharti targets bangladesh most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened pornographic videos flood youtube australia downplays india warning warning as snow chaos moves south china sued by us software company obama admits bomb plot failures plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' google phone to protect ad empire google unveils nexus one handset explosive planted in airport test g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened view from the top of world 's tallest building porn videos floods youtube google unveils nexus one handset viewers ' videos of snow scenes china 's sparkling ice festival world 's tallest building opens in dubai one-minute world news scientists make bones from wood runaway pig sparks road chase ' naked ' scanner in airport trial most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland major blow cia ' triple agent ' killing embarrases us and jordan most popular now most popular now -pipe- 36,343 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories homes plan for old college site ' unwanted ' snake thrown in canal peer faces expenses charges most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nairobi bikers improve their own slum most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened diana dors sports car to be sold rise of the mamils -lrb- middle-aged men in lycra -rrb- ' four dead ' in ny state shooting jewel gang ' thief ' sent to japan obama plea for gulf coast tourism pakistan says 20m hit by floods ' pakistan drone strike kills 12 ' iraqi asylum seekers struggle to survive in sweden nairobi bikers improve their own slum lebanon opens fund to equip army most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened cctv of ' air steward 's emergency exit ' life on the edge : korogocho 's biker boys pakistan says 20m hit by floods how to get a grip on your inbox a crisis of civilization ?
reward to capture colombian car bomber how to mute sounds on a pc men ' admit ' role in ugandan bomb mumbai tackles malaria for economic health increase in abandoned kittens most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 40,386 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories homes plan for old college site ' unwanted ' snake thrown in canal peer faces expenses charges most popular stories now shared read watched / listened taliban targets : women , children , foreigners country profile : india most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened spectators killed at us car race taliban targets : women , children , foreigners japan cabinet shuns wwii shrine ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam russia ban on grain export begins un urges speedy aid for pakistan lebanon ' kills militant leader ' in pictures : zurich 's dance parade baseball cup moved after shooting celebrations as princess turns 60 most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ethiopia 's ancient rock churches ban ki-moon urges speedy pakistan aid brazil fires threaten homes and parks un chief calls for more pakistan aid archive : princess anne 's first public appearance sudan national anthem how to get a grip on your inbox one-minute world news five minutes with : vince cable race for aid in flood-hit pakistan most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 41,514 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories arrest after man struck by lorry work starts at flood-hit school protection work for salt marshes most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nigeria country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened iran tv airs ' confession ' from woman facing stoning man grows pea plant inside lung meteor spectacle ' set to dazzle ' brazil to record ufo sightings relic of ' original earth ' exposed dying girl photographs criticised pakistani president in flood zone met officers face assault charges market trading : how hard can it be ?
deadly fires rage on in portugal most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened woman starts fight over chicken nuggets stinging jellyfish invade spanish coast uk teenager finds fame in japan women dice with death on m6 full flash video on phones saudi women photograph their world how a tragedy unfolded in pakistan ' fake fishermen ' claiming oil spill compensation one-minute world news cameron pays tribute to beckham most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 89,243 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories man found dead in bungalow fire zara phillips sets wedding date study says tip emissions ' safe ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened lab-grown urethra ' world first ' full face transplant for us man daniel o 'donnell breaks uk chart record for album sales hobbit filming finally under way most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened us ' to tone down role in libya ' physics predicts end of religion japan will overcome crisis - iaea live : libya crisis what chance of a ' big one ' in tokyo ?
israel launches gaza air strikes apology over donkey-botherer jibe yemeni general backs opposition thousands ' join ivory coast army ' russian leaders spar over libya most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama insists ' gaddafi needs to go ' first full face transplant in us rebels visit coalition attack site tsunami floodgate ' did not work ' footage of moment tsunami hit japan raf typhoon jets head to libya bbc news channel new footage : japan tsunami at sea tsunami children hunt for parents one-minute world news most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 43,171 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories man found dead in bungalow fire zara phillips sets wedding date study says tip emissions ' safe ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened botanic gardens ' invasives ' role sa ' mugger ' baboon to be put down sea radioactive near japan plant libya no-fly zone : coalition firepower defecating dog sparks us shootout most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan rebels recapture key town sea radioactive near japan plant defecating dog sparks us shootout us beauty queen wins ' fat ' case live : libya and mid-east crisis thousands begin anti-cuts march the muammar gaddafi story sa ' mugger ' baboon to be put down gaddafi may seek revenge - clarke us priests in sex abuse pay-out most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan rebels ' recapture ' ajdabiya tsunami victims vow never to return japan : radioactive levels in sea ' high ' one-minute world news raf tornados strike libyan tank targets the sxsw geeks who love to tinker tsunami wave sweeps inland more us forces head to the med viewing the spectacular northern lights inside japan 's nuclear exclusion zone most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 76,929 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories agency probes fish death puzzle water park bosses in fraud arrest gang leader 's sentence increased most popular stories now shared read watched / listened your pictures of scotland : 23 april - 30 april lebanon mob lynching ' barbaric ' fat americans a ' security threat ' inside the house of the future prostate cancer vaccine approved most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened bp under fire over us oil spill plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' hundreds strip off in lowry shoot fat americans a ' security threat ' escort girl claims cast cloud over french football us navy asked to share sub detail student guilty of palin hacking rwandan leader snubs us lawsuit pope to overhaul abuse-hit order in pictures : may day rallies most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened alaska 's tallest structure demolished nude volunteers pose for art shoot five minutes with : amy williams inmates could help oil clean-up nudes pose at irish castle naked crowd gathers for climate change made in taiwan : ' bigotgate ' greek riot police clash with protesters no food or water for 70 years ?
inside the house of the future most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis elusive peace fearful times as militants regroup in swat valley blow the whistle call-girl 's claims cast cloud over french football in pictures demonstrators mark may day around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 47,643 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who election 2010 formula 1 a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories ' unwanted ' snake thrown in canal peer in court on expenses charges ' eco-coffin ' made from newspaper most popular stories now shared read watched / listened halal holidays in the sun most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened runaway train on london tube line swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty teenage girl raped in city centre germany in ' record ' 2.2 % growth chinese set human domino record peru battles killer vampire bats are picky eaters ' genes to blame ?
pakistan curbs independence day iran nuclear plant start date set bodies found in south africa mine most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened timelapse footage of night sky one-minute world news plane rolls into sea in brazil record dominoes toppled in one go how to get a grip on your inbox devastating power of china floods chinese set human domino record pakistan 's flood survivors on the move us schoolboy to visit north korea pakistan 's floods from the air most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 81,643 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- gloucestershire -pipe- council jobs may go to save cash british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:34 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version council jobs may go to save cash up to 30 jobs could go and services may be cut at forest of dean district council to avoid a £ 1.1m budget overspend next year .
the authority is blaming the economic downturn , which has led to poorer returns in investments and a drop in fees earned for certain services .
the pest control service and tourist information centres could go .
the cabinet will discuss the proposed cuts next wednesday , ahead of a full council meeting in february .
demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch councillor brian robinson cabinet member for efficient council and finance , brian robinson , said : " some of our services which earn fees such as planning , land charges and building control have a direct relation to the property market and the prosperity of the building industry .
" demand for these services has fallen off as the district begins to feel the effects of the credit crunch .
" our income is expected to fall by some £ 500,000 .
in addition , falling interest rates will reduce our investment income . "
he said between 25 and 30 posts could be cut , some of which were already vacant .
efforts would be made to ensure the jobs would go through natural wastage , voluntary redundancy and redeploying staff where appropriate , he added .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc gloucestershire sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also news boss gives tourism a boost 30 nov 08 -pipe- gloucestershire related internet links forest of dean district council the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top gloucestershire stories death of clifton 's former bishop homes plan for old college site ' unwanted ' snake thrown in canal most popular stories now shared read watched / listened living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars bhutan 's happiness formula follow a fiver - from production to destruction most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened craigslist ' killer ' dies in jail ban shocked by pakistan flooding diana dors roadster goes for $ 3m spectators killed at us car race adult drinking sparks child calls living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam superheroes ' poor role models ' man , 19 , raped in county tyrone japan economic growth slows down most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama takes a dip in gulf waters un chief 's sorrow at pakistan crisis spectators killed at us car race footage shows boy hit by bus one-minute world news archive : princess anne 's first public appearance russia 's air industry in recovery saudi women photograph their world new cabin crew put through their paces vj day marked in uk ceremonies most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 21,857 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories luxury jewellery stolen in raid traffic-free route for cyclists prince to lead tributes on vj day most popular stories now shared read watched / listened india country profile taliban targets : women , children , foreigners most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened spectators killed at us car race ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam russia ban on grain export begins un chief ban ki-moon urges help for pakistan flood lebanon ' kills militant leader ' women , children and foreigners luxury jewellery stores targeted in raid childhood stress ' causes illness ' five iraqis cleared over red cap deaths living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news new york ' puckers up for peace ' spectators killed at us car race carmaker morgan unveils eva gt virgin to suspend file sharers jerusalem projection draws tourists brazil fires threaten homes and parks soldier is miss world contender women dice with death on m6 urban farming bid to revive detroit most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 40,586 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories london poised for heavy snowfall guard ' planned ' fatal store raid tfl ' wasted ' £ 20m on tube access most popular stories now shared read watched / listened plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' schools closed as blizzards hit school closures in derbyshire school closures across birmingham in pictures : sussex in the snow most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened schools closed as blizzards hit australia downplays india warning pornographic videos flood youtube obama given intelligence pledge china sued by us software company google phone to protect ad empire plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' in pictures : bird 's nest winter wonderland cia killings a major blow to us g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened swiss avalanche death toll rises one-minute world news porn videos floods youtube google unveils nexus one handset us state reviews shackling laws europe ' will continue to shiver ' china 's sparkling ice festival viewers ' videos of snow scenes met office warnings as snow spreads aerial view of the snow most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland major blow cia ' triple agent ' killing embarrases us and jordan most popular now most popular now -pipe- 91,629 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened how has adele become so successful ?
playful filipino names hard to get used to taking space travel to the masses most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libya foreign minister ' defects ' japan to scrap stricken reactors gorbachev 's eclectic london birthday bash taking space travel to the masses guard arrested near 2012 stadium ivorian fighters ' take capital ' joy and despair after cricket epic sarkozy in china for g20 summit the art of the perfect prank israel ' given argentina pledge ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news bbc reporter on the frontlines in libya noisy trousers create jeans beat virgin galactic testing underway shares in tokyo electric tumble reagan ' a fetish object for the far right ' olga kotelko : the 91-year-old track star ivory coast fighters ' take capital ' inside the virgin galactic spaceship shattered lives in tsunami-hit japan most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 24,843 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened lab-grown urethra ' world first ' full face transplant for us man daniel o 'donnell breaks uk chart record for album sales hobbit filming finally under way most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened tripoli targeted for third night new smoke seen at japan reactor physics predicts end of religion live : libya crisis full face transplant for us man what chance of a ' big one ' in tokyo ?
hobbit filming finally under way russian leaders spar over libya israel launches gaza air strikes libya no-fly zone : coalition firepower most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened first full face transplant in us libya : gaddafi 's war of words finland 's education success narrow escape for japan office workers tsunami children hunt for parents tsunami floodgate ' did not work ' mps to debate libya intervention raf typhoon jets head to libya calls for revolution in syria the hobbit stars ready for action most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 30,400 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories tomlinson post-mortem report held stansted train time poster banned mercury prize goes to trio the xx most popular stories now shared read watched / listened webscape how earthquakes happen plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened church defiant over koran stunt afghan dancing boys sexually abused good dancing link to male health dwarf galaxies gobbled by giants un ' failed ' dr congo rape victims wwii mass grave found in slovenia suicides cost japan economy $ 32bn us college offers zombie studies petraeus warns over koran burning tomlinson post-mortem report held most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened good and bad dancing put to test belgian pm on eurozone integration one-minute world news trapped miners watch football match pressure mounts against koran burning angelina jolie visits pakistan religious leaders unite against koran burning life for roma expelled from france putin weighing up presidency bid what makes a good dancer ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 35,200 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links battle of britain pakistan floods full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened defecating dog sparks us shootout a new way to look at radiation sa ' mugger ' baboon to be put down botanic gardens ' invasives ' role libya no-fly zone : coalition firepower most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan rebels recapture key town sea radioactive near japan plant live : libya and mid-east crisis thousands begin anti-cuts march the muammar gaddafi story defecating dog sparks us shootout us beauty queen wins ' fat ' case yemen leader ' negotiating exit ' gaddafi may seek revenge - clarke the roma pitted against hungary 's far right most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened thousands turn out for anti-cuts march viewing the spectacular northern lights the sxsw geeks who love to tinker japan : radioactive levels in sea ' high ' tsunami victims vow never to return libyan rebels ' recapture ' ajdabiya one-minute world news ivory coast : ' a million ' refugees ' we 're not going back to the 1980s ' are school phone plans fair ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 70,843 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories special pcs in train death probe man in court over mother 's murder family stabbing witness appeal most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nairobi bikers improve their own slum most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened diana dors sports car to be sold four killed in ny state shooting obama plea for gulf coast tourism rise of the mamils -lrb- middle-aged men in lycra -rrb- jewel gang ' thief ' sent to japan iraqi asylum seekers struggle to survive in sweden pakistan says 20m hit by floods lebanon opens fund to equip army unnamed page nairobi bikers improve their own slum most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened footage shows boy hit by bus cctv of ' air steward 's emergency exit ' women dice with death on m6 firefighters battle portugal wildfires rescues amid china flood chaos pakistan says 20m hit by floods how to get a grip on your inbox close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river the saturdays on a life of fame obama vows to ' restore ' gulf coast most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 41,143 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories luxury jewellery stolen in raid collapsed sewer closes ring-road fallen remembered on vj day most popular stories now shared read watched / listened living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars bhutan 's happiness formula follow a fiver - from production to destruction most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened japan economic growth slows down craigslist ' killer ' found dead in boston jail spectators killed at us california 200 off-road race diana dors roadster goes for $ 3m un chief ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam is ' grandpa wen ' as nice as he seems ?
youth olympic games gamble for singapore man , 19 , raped in county tyrone living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama takes a dip in gulf waters unnamed page un chief 's sorrow at pakistan crisis how to get a grip on your email inbox one-minute world news carmaker morgan unveils eva gt the ' healing powers ' of wax at fatima shrine computers ' hold climate clues ' rossini recorded in rome venue raiders grab jewellery from luxury shops most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 45,600 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories mother and daughter found killed met officers face assault charges trio abseil big ben for repairs most popular stories now shared read watched / listened turkey country profile return to ' last great wilderness ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty peru battles killer vampire bats woman banned from all sainsbury 's chinese ' infant breasts ' inquiry moscow ' hiding heatstroke cases ' home computers discover rare star zardari tries to ease flood anger india sets deadline on blackberry horror film set paedophile jailed fears over £ 65bn ' nhs mortgage ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened scanner uncovers river 's mystery objects unnamed page one-minute world news unnamed page pakistan 's floods from the air unnamed page unnamed page unnamed page women dice with death on m6 crazed stoat ' goes berserk ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 18,743 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories man found guilty of club murder london flooding damage assessed runaway train on london tube line most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened runaway train on london tube line swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty germany in ' record ' 2.2 % growth teenage girl raped in city centre are picky eaters ' genes to blame ?
chinese set human domino record meteors still set for ' good show ' pakistan curbs independence day bodies found in south africa mine decision due on bp oil well plug most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened plane rolls into sea in brazil one-minute world news chinese set human domino record record dominoes toppled in one go how to get a grip on your inbox devastating power of china floods women dice with death on m6 picky eater : ' pasta is like live worms ' blue peter 's mattress record us schoolboy to visit north korea most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 76,086 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories controversial brent councillor goes solo age limit restricts 2012 helpers error leads to new ballot papers most popular stories now shared read watched / listened fat americans a ' security threat ' hundreds strip off in lowry shoot prostate cancer vaccine approved answers sought on trawler tragedy derbyshire music festivals 2010 most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened weather hampers us oil clean-up hundreds strip off in lowry shoot fat americans a ' security threat ' ' bigot ' row woman will not vote plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' escort girl claims cast cloud over french football protesters confront greek police pope to overhaul abuse-hit order in pictures : may day rallies in maps : gulf of mexico oil spill most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened nude volunteers pose for art shoot inmates could help oil clean-up nudes pose at irish castle one-minute world news alaska 's tallest structure demolished five minutes with : amy williams greek riot police clash with protesters no food or water for 70 years ?
naked crowd gathers for climate change persian star on life outside iran most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis elusive peace fearful times as militants regroup in swat valley blow the whistle call-girl 's claims cast cloud over french football in pictures demonstrators mark may day around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 80,014 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who election 2010 formula 1 a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news at one news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version hamilton in drink-drive campaign hamilton -lrb- left -rrb- said he was always happy to be the designated driver formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
lewis hamilton on the anti-drink drive campaign " that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories met officers face assault charges mother and daughter found killed burst water main hits west london most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened australian woman discovers body iran stoning woman ' confesses ' day in pictures brazil to record ufo sightings meteor spectacle ' set to dazzle ' man grows pea plant inside lung dying girl photographs criticised greek gdp shrinks a further 1.5 % colombian capital rocked by blast russians remember kursk disaster most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened saudi women photograph their world women dice with death on m6 unnamed page aerial video shows portugal fires iran stoning woman ' confesses ' the great migration to open-air swimming woman starts fight over chicken nuggets stinging jellyfish invade spanish coast uk teenager finds fame in japan how blind football is played most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 115,171 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- hamilton in drink-drive campaign bbc news / london graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 08:41 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 hamilton in drink-drive campaign formula 1 world champion lewis hamilton has got behind the wheel of a london black cab to back an anti-drink-drive campaign .
hamilton teamed up with double world champion mika hakkinen to hail public transport drivers who get people home safely as " the real champions " .
they drove cabs across tower bridge towards city hall where they met drivers from transport for london .
hamilton said : " our message is simple : never drink and drive . "
' tragic waste ' he added : " if you are out celebrating , use a designated driver , whether that is a taxi , bus , tube or train driver or a friend who does n't drink that evening .
" ever since i passed my driving test , whenever i go out with my friends i 'm always happy to be the designated driver .
" that way i know everyone gets home safely . "
hakkinen said : " it 's great we 've been able to come to london and highlight the real champions , the people who get us home safely every day of the week . "
last year , 460 people were killed and about 1,750 seriously injured in the uk as a result of drinking .
london mayor boris johnson said : " too many lives are tragically wasted through drink-driving accidents , so i hope that the message really gets through by having lewis and mika , two of the world 's most talented and renowned car drivers , leading the call for people to think before getting into a car . "
e-mail this to a friend related internet links brake mayor of london diageo the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge bbc news / entertainment graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- entertainment contents : arts & culture 08:43 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge by rajini vaidyanathan bbc news , washington to her fans , oprah winfrey is more of a friend than a talk show host .
her intimate , heart-on-sleeve style of presenting has seen her share many personal moments with her viewers .
her yo-yoing weight has been one such issue .
over the years she has discussed the diets she 's tried , and the pounds shed .
now , writing in her magazine o , she tells them she has " fallen off the wagon " and weighs 200 pounds -lrb- 91kg -rrb- .
" i 'm mad at myself .
i 'm embarrassed .
i ca n't believe that after all these years , all the things i know how to do , i 'm still talking about my weight .
" i look at my thinner self and think , ' how did i let this happen again ? " '
the cover of oprah 's magazine features her in two different pictures .
one shows her current figure , the other her more slimline self four years ago .
it 's a visual and public admission that she has gained 40 pounds in the past year .
sluggish metabolism " i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky .
her current weight and height put her body mass index at 31.8 , which is obese according to the centers for disease control and prevention .
it is fitting that oprah should choose to share her latest weight woes with the world , since she has always been very open about this aspect of her life .
in 1992 , she weighed 237 pounds -lrb- 108kg -rrb- .
she hired a personal trainer and made it her goal to slim down , and completed the marine corps marathon the following year . "
i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky " oprah winfrey in 1998 on her show , wearing a pair of tight fitting size 10 jeans , she famously wheeled a cart loaded with 67 pounds of fat to represent the amount she had lost on a liquid protein diet .
by 2005 she weighed 160 pounds -lrb- 73kg -rrb- , and had completed a diet where she starved herself for four months .
since then , her diet pattern and weight have fluctuated .
she says in her magazine that hypothyroidism - a sluggish metabolism that can cause fatigue and weight gain - are the reason she has hit the 200 pound mark .
" it seemed as if the struggle i 'd had with weight my entire adult life was now officially over .
i felt completely defeated .
i thought , ' i give up .
i give up .
fat wins . " '
' fat cow ' " all these years i 'd had only myself to blame for lack of willpower .
now i had an official , documented excuse , " she said .
writing candidly , winfrey says that the condition sucked the life out of her , but despite feeling under the weather she continued to show up to record her shows .
" i think i hit bottom when i wanted to stay home even from a show as fun as the one we did with tina turner and cher in las vegas .
" i was supposed to stand between them onstage , and i felt like a fat cow .
i wanted to disappear .
' god help me now , ' i thought .
' how can i hide myself ? " '
gayle king , oprah 's best friend , told abc 's good morning america that the talk show star has already had a big reaction from people who are surprised she confessed to gaining weight .
king admits that to hear the words oprah and embarrassed in the same sentence were " jarring " for her .
king told the programme : " this is not oprah 's first rodeo , she has gained weight , lost weight , gained weight , lost weight , and when she 's ready to lose weight she does . "
she hinted that although oprah has said she is happy in herself at present , she has already begun working towards losing some weight .
" oprah 's going to do something about it ... she is already in the process of doing something about it .
but this is n't going to be a lifelong look for her .
but the fact it 's happened to her again is very stunning " king said .
next month oprah winfrey is expected at barack obama 's inauguration celebrations .
recently she talked about trying to find an outfit for the occasion .
" i had a dress on the vision board , but i 'm not sure that 's gonna fit ... so i have to work on something else . "
oprah says her goal is n't to be thin , but to be healthy and strong .
could this be the end of a long and very public conversation with her viewers about her weight loss ?
given her candidness on the matter before , the answer is likely to be " probably not " .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : winfrey is ' most generous star ' -lrb- 14 sep 08 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- tv 's oprah tops power list again -lrb- 12 jun 08 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- cruise makes serious oprah return -lrb- 03 may 08 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- oprah gains her own us tv network -lrb- 16 jan 08 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- related internet links o magazine oprah winfrey show good morning america centers for disease control and prevention the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- entertainment contents : arts & culture newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:43 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge by rajini vaidyanathan bbc news , washington to her fans , oprah winfrey is more of a friend than a talk show host .
oprah 's struggle : pictured in 1994 and earlier this month her intimate , heart-on-sleeve style of presenting has seen her share many personal moments with her viewers .
her yo-yoing weight has been one such issue .
over the years she has discussed the diets she 's tried , and the pounds shed .
now , writing in her magazine o , she tells them she has " fallen off the wagon " and weighs 200 pounds -lrb- 91kg -rrb- .
" i 'm mad at myself .
i 'm embarrassed .
i ca n't believe that after all these years , all the things i know how to do , i 'm still talking about my weight .
" i look at my thinner self and think , ' how did i let this happen again ? " '
the cover of oprah 's magazine features her in two different pictures .
one shows her current figure , the other her more slimline self four years ago .
it 's a visual and public admission that she has gained 40 pounds in the past year .
sluggish metabolism " i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky .
her current weight and height put her body mass index at 31.8 , which is obese according to the centers for disease control and prevention .
it is fitting that oprah should choose to share her latest weight woes with the world , since she has always been very open about this aspect of her life .
in 1992 , she weighed 237 pounds -lrb- 108kg -rrb- .
she hired a personal trainer and made it her goal to slim down , and completed the marine corps marathon the following year .
i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky oprah winfrey in 1998 on her show , wearing a pair of tight fitting size 10 jeans , she famously wheeled a cart loaded with 67 pounds of fat to represent the amount she had lost on a liquid protein diet .
by 2005 she weighed 160 pounds -lrb- 73kg -rrb- , and had completed a diet where she starved herself for four months .
since then , her diet pattern and weight have fluctuated .
she says in her magazine that hypothyroidism - a sluggish metabolism that can cause fatigue and weight gain - are the reason she has hit the 200 pound mark .
" it seemed as if the struggle i 'd had with weight my entire adult life was now officially over .
i felt completely defeated .
i thought , ' i give up .
i give up .
fat wins . " '
' fat cow ' " all these years i 'd had only myself to blame for lack of willpower .
now i had an official , documented excuse , " she said .
writing candidly , winfrey says that the condition sucked the life out of her , but despite feeling under the weather she continued to show up to record her shows .
" i think i hit bottom when i wanted to stay home even from a show as fun as the one we did with tina turner and cher in las vegas .
" i was supposed to stand between them onstage , and i felt like a fat cow .
i wanted to disappear .
' god help me now , ' i thought .
' how can i hide myself ? " '
gayle king , oprah 's best friend , told abc 's good morning america that the talk show star has already had a big reaction from people who are surprised she confessed to gaining weight .
oprah showed off her svelte figure on screen in 1988 king admits that to hear the words oprah and embarrassed in the same sentence were " jarring " for her .
king told the programme : " this is not oprah 's first rodeo , she has gained weight , lost weight , gained weight , lost weight , and when she 's ready to lose weight she does . "
she hinted that although oprah has said she is happy in herself at present , she has already begun working towards losing some weight .
" oprah 's going to do something about it ... she is already in the process of doing something about it .
but this is n't going to be a lifelong look for her .
but the fact it 's happened to her again is very stunning " king said .
next month oprah winfrey is expected at barack obama 's inauguration celebrations .
recently she talked about trying to find an outfit for the occasion .
" i had a dress on the vision board , but i 'm not sure that 's gonna fit ... so i have to work on something else . "
oprah says her goal is n't to be thin , but to be healthy and strong .
could this be the end of a long and very public conversation with her viewers about her weight loss ?
given her candidness on the matter before , the answer is likely to be " probably not " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also winfrey is ' most generous star ' 14 sep 08 -pipe- entertainment tv 's oprah tops power list again 12 jun 08 -pipe- entertainment cruise makes serious oprah return 03 may 08 -pipe- entertainment oprah gains her own us tv network 16 jan 08 -pipe- entertainment related internet links o magazine oprah winfrey show good morning america centers for disease control and prevention the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories del toro ' takes leave ' of hobbit shrek beats sex and the city film homer is ' greatest tv character ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened e-mail error ends up on road sign russian mps caught in voting scandal cuba timeline call from mother ' as good as hug ' condoms ' too big ' for indian men most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened doubt cast on israel raid account bp prepares new bid to curb spill ex-us vp al gore splits from wife us hails al-qaeda chief 's ' death ' cancun mayor faces drugs charges del toro ' takes leave ' of hobbit e-mail error ends up on road sign a space odyssey of the mind ' first ' neanderthal tool evidence cage-fighter jailed for £ 53m raid most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened israel releases ' footage of flotilla raid ' pakistan lake threatens to burst glimpses of real north korean rural life one-minute world news north korea 's version of the internet storm plagues obama 's memorial speech one-minute world news lesbian football team offers sanctuary russian mps caught in voting scandal ehud barak defends israeli actions most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis horst , why ?
german president 's shock resignation a blow to merkel gomp / arts the woman who brought giant spiders to london day in pictures a selection of pictures from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 43,400 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:43 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge by rajini vaidyanathan bbc news , washington to her fans , oprah winfrey is more of a friend than a talk show host .
oprah 's struggle : pictured in 1994 and earlier this month her intimate , heart-on-sleeve style of presenting has seen her share many personal moments with her viewers .
her yo-yoing weight has been one such issue .
over the years she has discussed the diets she 's tried , and the pounds shed .
now , writing in her magazine o , she tells them she has " fallen off the wagon " and weighs 200 pounds -lrb- 91kg -rrb- .
" i 'm mad at myself .
i 'm embarrassed .
i ca n't believe that after all these years , all the things i know how to do , i 'm still talking about my weight .
" i look at my thinner self and think , ' how did i let this happen again ? " '
the cover of oprah 's magazine features her in two different pictures .
one shows her current figure , the other her more slimline self four years ago .
it 's a visual and public admission that she has gained 40 pounds in the past year .
sluggish metabolism " i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky .
her current weight and height put her body mass index at 31.8 , which is obese according to the centers for disease control and prevention .
it is fitting that oprah should choose to share her latest weight woes with the world , since she has always been very open about this aspect of her life .
in 1992 , she weighed 237 pounds -lrb- 108kg -rrb- .
she hired a personal trainer and made it her goal to slim down , and completed the marine corps marathon the following year .
i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky oprah winfrey in 1998 on her show , wearing a pair of tight fitting size 10 jeans , she famously wheeled a cart loaded with 67 pounds of fat to represent the amount she had lost on a liquid protein diet .
by 2005 she weighed 160 pounds -lrb- 73kg -rrb- , and had completed a diet where she starved herself for four months .
since then , her diet pattern and weight have fluctuated .
she says in her magazine that hypothyroidism - a sluggish metabolism that can cause fatigue and weight gain - are the reason she has hit the 200 pound mark .
" it seemed as if the struggle i 'd had with weight my entire adult life was now officially over .
i felt completely defeated .
i thought , ' i give up .
i give up .
fat wins . " '
' fat cow ' " all these years i 'd had only myself to blame for lack of willpower .
now i had an official , documented excuse , " she said .
writing candidly , winfrey says that the condition sucked the life out of her , but despite feeling under the weather she continued to show up to record her shows .
" i think i hit bottom when i wanted to stay home even from a show as fun as the one we did with tina turner and cher in las vegas .
" i was supposed to stand between them onstage , and i felt like a fat cow .
i wanted to disappear .
' god help me now , ' i thought .
' how can i hide myself ? " '
gayle king , oprah 's best friend , told abc 's good morning america that the talk show star has already had a big reaction from people who are surprised she confessed to gaining weight .
oprah showed off her svelte figure on screen in 1988 king admits that to hear the words oprah and embarrassed in the same sentence were " jarring " for her .
king told the programme : " this is not oprah 's first rodeo , she has gained weight , lost weight , gained weight , lost weight , and when she 's ready to lose weight she does . "
she hinted that although oprah has said she is happy in herself at present , she has already begun working towards losing some weight .
" oprah 's going to do something about it ... she is already in the process of doing something about it .
but this is n't going to be a lifelong look for her .
but the fact it 's happened to her again is very stunning " king said .
next month oprah winfrey is expected at barack obama 's inauguration celebrations .
recently she talked about trying to find an outfit for the occasion .
" i had a dress on the vision board , but i 'm not sure that 's gonna fit ... so i have to work on something else . "
oprah says her goal is n't to be thin , but to be healthy and strong .
could this be the end of a long and very public conversation with her viewers about her weight loss ?
given her candidness on the matter before , the answer is likely to be " probably not " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also winfrey is ' most generous star ' 14 sep 08 -pipe- entertainment tv 's oprah tops power list again 12 jun 08 -pipe- entertainment cruise makes serious oprah return 03 may 08 -pipe- entertainment oprah gains her own us tv network 16 jan 08 -pipe- entertainment related internet links o magazine oprah winfrey show good morning america centers for disease control and prevention the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 reschedule us and canada dates cheryl ' on the mend ' says simon cowell zsa zsa gabor taken to hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened model ' said taylor sent diamond ' germany closes 9/11 plot mosque apple iphone boss leaves company bbc loses gadgets worth £ 240,000 eurosceptic swiss count their blessings turkey groom kills wedding guests naked rollercoaster ' record ' set moscow deaths double in heatwave pakistan floods could swamp sindh israel ship raid ' legal ' says pm most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened mia farrow testifies at hague model ' said taylor sent diamond ' one-minute world news flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep jen on the switch & more showbiz race against time in pakistan floods tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse drug war targets cocaine ' additives ' iphone faults to hurt apple 's core ?
residents ' ordeals in flood-hit europe most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 70,157 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:43 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge by rajini vaidyanathan bbc news , washington to her fans , oprah winfrey is more of a friend than a talk show host .
oprah 's struggle : pictured in 1994 and earlier this month her intimate , heart-on-sleeve style of presenting has seen her share many personal moments with her viewers .
her yo-yoing weight has been one such issue .
over the years she has discussed the diets she 's tried , and the pounds shed .
now , writing in her magazine o , she tells them she has " fallen off the wagon " and weighs 200 pounds -lrb- 91kg -rrb- .
" i 'm mad at myself .
i 'm embarrassed .
i ca n't believe that after all these years , all the things i know how to do , i 'm still talking about my weight .
" i look at my thinner self and think , ' how did i let this happen again ? " '
the cover of oprah 's magazine features her in two different pictures .
one shows her current figure , the other her more slimline self four years ago .
it 's a visual and public admission that she has gained 40 pounds in the past year .
sluggish metabolism " i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky .
her current weight and height put her body mass index at 31.8 , which is obese according to the centers for disease control and prevention .
it is fitting that oprah should choose to share her latest weight woes with the world , since she has always been very open about this aspect of her life .
in 1992 , she weighed 237 pounds -lrb- 108kg -rrb- .
she hired a personal trainer and made it her goal to slim down , and completed the marine corps marathon the following year .
i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky oprah winfrey in 1998 on her show , wearing a pair of tight fitting size 10 jeans , she famously wheeled a cart loaded with 67 pounds of fat to represent the amount she had lost on a liquid protein diet .
by 2005 she weighed 160 pounds -lrb- 73kg -rrb- , and had completed a diet where she starved herself for four months .
since then , her diet pattern and weight have fluctuated .
she says in her magazine that hypothyroidism - a sluggish metabolism that can cause fatigue and weight gain - are the reason she has hit the 200 pound mark .
" it seemed as if the struggle i 'd had with weight my entire adult life was now officially over .
i felt completely defeated .
i thought , ' i give up .
i give up .
fat wins . " '
' fat cow ' " all these years i 'd had only myself to blame for lack of willpower .
now i had an official , documented excuse , " she said .
writing candidly , winfrey says that the condition sucked the life out of her , but despite feeling under the weather she continued to show up to record her shows .
" i think i hit bottom when i wanted to stay home even from a show as fun as the one we did with tina turner and cher in las vegas .
" i was supposed to stand between them onstage , and i felt like a fat cow .
i wanted to disappear .
' god help me now , ' i thought .
' how can i hide myself ? " '
gayle king , oprah 's best friend , told abc 's good morning america that the talk show star has already had a big reaction from people who are surprised she confessed to gaining weight .
oprah showed off her svelte figure on screen in 1988 king admits that to hear the words oprah and embarrassed in the same sentence were " jarring " for her .
king told the programme : " this is not oprah 's first rodeo , she has gained weight , lost weight , gained weight , lost weight , and when she 's ready to lose weight she does . "
she hinted that although oprah has said she is happy in herself at present , she has already begun working towards losing some weight .
" oprah 's going to do something about it ... she is already in the process of doing something about it .
but this is n't going to be a lifelong look for her .
but the fact it 's happened to her again is very stunning " king said .
next month oprah winfrey is expected at barack obama 's inauguration celebrations .
recently she talked about trying to find an outfit for the occasion .
" i had a dress on the vision board , but i 'm not sure that 's gonna fit ... so i have to work on something else . "
oprah says her goal is n't to be thin , but to be healthy and strong .
could this be the end of a long and very public conversation with her viewers about her weight loss ?
given her candidness on the matter before , the answer is likely to be " probably not " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also winfrey is ' most generous star ' 14 sep 08 -pipe- entertainment tv 's oprah tops power list again 12 jun 08 -pipe- entertainment cruise makes serious oprah return 03 may 08 -pipe- entertainment oprah gains her own us tv network 16 jan 08 -pipe- entertainment related internet links o magazine oprah winfrey show good morning america centers for disease control and prevention the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 reschedule us and canada dates cheryl ' on the mend ' says simon cowell zsa zsa gabor taken to hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened the battle for berlin 's gardens enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' china country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened turkey groom kills wedding guests robbie williams weds ayda field world sauna event finalist dies couple murdered on pakistan trip pakistan hit by deadly landslips duchess tries to avoid bankruptcy iran lawyer in norway asylum bid north korea ' holds southern boat ' no 10 rejects child milk cut idea the battle for berlin 's gardens most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep ' dumpster dip ' cools new yorkers close-up : austria 's teenage ballroom dancers one-minute world news one-minute world news astronauts tackle urgent repair freak weather havoc hits europe ' a river of mud ' in gansu province most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 51,814 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:43 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge by rajini vaidyanathan bbc news , washington to her fans , oprah winfrey is more of a friend than a talk show host .
oprah 's struggle : pictured in 1994 and earlier this month her intimate , heart-on-sleeve style of presenting has seen her share many personal moments with her viewers .
her yo-yoing weight has been one such issue .
over the years she has discussed the diets she 's tried , and the pounds shed .
now , writing in her magazine o , she tells them she has " fallen off the wagon " and weighs 200 pounds -lrb- 91kg -rrb- .
" i 'm mad at myself .
i 'm embarrassed .
i ca n't believe that after all these years , all the things i know how to do , i 'm still talking about my weight .
" i look at my thinner self and think , ' how did i let this happen again ? " '
the cover of oprah 's magazine features her in two different pictures .
one shows her current figure , the other her more slimline self four years ago .
it 's a visual and public admission that she has gained 40 pounds in the past year .
sluggish metabolism " i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky .
her current weight and height put her body mass index at 31.8 , which is obese according to the centers for disease control and prevention .
it is fitting that oprah should choose to share her latest weight woes with the world , since she has always been very open about this aspect of her life .
in 1992 , she weighed 237 pounds -lrb- 108kg -rrb- .
she hired a personal trainer and made it her goal to slim down , and completed the marine corps marathon the following year .
i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky oprah winfrey in 1998 on her show , wearing a pair of tight fitting size 10 jeans , she famously wheeled a cart loaded with 67 pounds of fat to represent the amount she had lost on a liquid protein diet .
by 2005 she weighed 160 pounds -lrb- 73kg -rrb- , and had completed a diet where she starved herself for four months .
since then , her diet pattern and weight have fluctuated .
she says in her magazine that hypothyroidism - a sluggish metabolism that can cause fatigue and weight gain - are the reason she has hit the 200 pound mark .
" it seemed as if the struggle i 'd had with weight my entire adult life was now officially over .
i felt completely defeated .
i thought , ' i give up .
i give up .
fat wins . " '
' fat cow ' " all these years i 'd had only myself to blame for lack of willpower .
now i had an official , documented excuse , " she said .
writing candidly , winfrey says that the condition sucked the life out of her , but despite feeling under the weather she continued to show up to record her shows .
" i think i hit bottom when i wanted to stay home even from a show as fun as the one we did with tina turner and cher in las vegas .
" i was supposed to stand between them onstage , and i felt like a fat cow .
i wanted to disappear .
' god help me now , ' i thought .
' how can i hide myself ? " '
gayle king , oprah 's best friend , told abc 's good morning america that the talk show star has already had a big reaction from people who are surprised she confessed to gaining weight .
oprah showed off her svelte figure on screen in 1988 king admits that to hear the words oprah and embarrassed in the same sentence were " jarring " for her .
king told the programme : " this is not oprah 's first rodeo , she has gained weight , lost weight , gained weight , lost weight , and when she 's ready to lose weight she does . "
she hinted that although oprah has said she is happy in herself at present , she has already begun working towards losing some weight .
" oprah 's going to do something about it ... she is already in the process of doing something about it .
but this is n't going to be a lifelong look for her .
but the fact it 's happened to her again is very stunning " king said .
next month oprah winfrey is expected at barack obama 's inauguration celebrations .
recently she talked about trying to find an outfit for the occasion .
" i had a dress on the vision board , but i 'm not sure that 's gonna fit ... so i have to work on something else . "
oprah says her goal is n't to be thin , but to be healthy and strong .
could this be the end of a long and very public conversation with her viewers about her weight loss ?
given her candidness on the matter before , the answer is likely to be " probably not " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also winfrey is ' most generous star ' 14 sep 08 -pipe- entertainment tv 's oprah tops power list again 12 jun 08 -pipe- entertainment cruise makes serious oprah return 03 may 08 -pipe- entertainment oprah gains her own us tv network 16 jan 08 -pipe- entertainment related internet links o magazine oprah winfrey show good morning america centers for disease control and prevention the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 and jay-z record haiti track doctor who scoops two tv awards gibson : ' i survived humiliation ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened trials spark hope of pill for ms air france may bar obese people rare glimpse of the crystal cave manchester united debt hits £ 716m senegal offers land to haitians most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama warns senate on healthcare air france may bar obese people wildlife photo stripped of award starbucks sees its profits triple mammals ' floated to madagascar ' virginia suspect ' hid explosives ' us diverts 4,000 troops to haiti how did quakers conquer the british sweet shop ?
eight dead in virginia shootings trials spark hope of pill for ms most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened children rescued from the rubble rare footage of crystal cave haiti 's outdoor maternity ward prince william proves a hit ' down under ' woman rescued after week under rubble one-minute world news woman survives week under rubble thoughts on obama 's first year in office virginia shootings man surrenders playstation 's new virtual controller most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis patronage politics philippine massacre exposes political underworld sights unseen training blind people to take photos graining it how sugar made tycoons out of a religious sect most popular now most popular now -pipe- 44,157 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 08:43 gmt , thursday , 11 december 2008 e-mail this to a friend printable version oprah 's see-saw battle of the bulge by rajini vaidyanathan bbc news , washington to her fans , oprah winfrey is more of a friend than a talk show host .
oprah 's struggle : pictured in 1994 and earlier this month her intimate , heart-on-sleeve style of presenting has seen her share many personal moments with her viewers .
her yo-yoing weight has been one such issue .
over the years she has discussed the diets she 's tried , and the pounds shed .
now , writing in her magazine o , she tells them she has " fallen off the wagon " and weighs 200 pounds -lrb- 91kg -rrb- .
" i 'm mad at myself .
i 'm embarrassed .
i ca n't believe that after all these years , all the things i know how to do , i 'm still talking about my weight .
" i look at my thinner self and think , ' how did i let this happen again ? " '
the cover of oprah 's magazine features her in two different pictures .
one shows her current figure , the other her more slimline self four years ago .
it 's a visual and public admission that she has gained 40 pounds in the past year .
sluggish metabolism " i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky .
her current weight and height put her body mass index at 31.8 , which is obese according to the centers for disease control and prevention .
it is fitting that oprah should choose to share her latest weight woes with the world , since she has always been very open about this aspect of her life .
in 1992 , she weighed 237 pounds -lrb- 108kg -rrb- .
she hired a personal trainer and made it her goal to slim down , and completed the marine corps marathon the following year .
i thought i was finished with the weight battle .
i was done .
i 'd conquered it .
i was so sure , i was even cocky oprah winfrey in 1998 on her show , wearing a pair of tight fitting size 10 jeans , she famously wheeled a cart loaded with 67 pounds of fat to represent the amount she had lost on a liquid protein diet .
by 2005 she weighed 160 pounds -lrb- 73kg -rrb- , and had completed a diet where she starved herself for four months .
since then , her diet pattern and weight have fluctuated .
she says in her magazine that hypothyroidism - a sluggish metabolism that can cause fatigue and weight gain - are the reason she has hit the 200 pound mark .
" it seemed as if the struggle i 'd had with weight my entire adult life was now officially over .
i felt completely defeated .
i thought , ' i give up .
i give up .
fat wins . " '
' fat cow ' " all these years i 'd had only myself to blame for lack of willpower .
now i had an official , documented excuse , " she said .
writing candidly , winfrey says that the condition sucked the life out of her , but despite feeling under the weather she continued to show up to record her shows .
" i think i hit bottom when i wanted to stay home even from a show as fun as the one we did with tina turner and cher in las vegas .
" i was supposed to stand between them onstage , and i felt like a fat cow .
i wanted to disappear .
' god help me now , ' i thought .
' how can i hide myself ? " '
gayle king , oprah 's best friend , told abc 's good morning america that the talk show star has already had a big reaction from people who are surprised she confessed to gaining weight .
oprah showed off her svelte figure on screen in 1988 king admits that to hear the words oprah and embarrassed in the same sentence were " jarring " for her .
king told the programme : " this is not oprah 's first rodeo , she has gained weight , lost weight , gained weight , lost weight , and when she 's ready to lose weight she does . "
she hinted that although oprah has said she is happy in herself at present , she has already begun working towards losing some weight .
" oprah 's going to do something about it ... she is already in the process of doing something about it .
but this is n't going to be a lifelong look for her .
but the fact it 's happened to her again is very stunning " king said .
next month oprah winfrey is expected at barack obama 's inauguration celebrations .
recently she talked about trying to find an outfit for the occasion .
" i had a dress on the vision board , but i 'm not sure that 's gonna fit ... so i have to work on something else . "
oprah says her goal is n't to be thin , but to be healthy and strong .
could this be the end of a long and very public conversation with her viewers about her weight loss ?
given her candidness on the matter before , the answer is likely to be " probably not " .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also winfrey is ' most generous star ' 14 sep 08 -pipe- entertainment tv 's oprah tops power list again 12 jun 08 -pipe- entertainment cruise makes serious oprah return 03 may 08 -pipe- entertainment oprah gains her own us tv network 16 jan 08 -pipe- entertainment related internet links o magazine oprah winfrey show good morning america centers for disease control and prevention the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories midnight record for twilight film jackson drugs bought in las vegas lady gaga joins royal gala show most popular stories now shared read watched / listened priest shot dead in moscow church chavez hails ' carlos the jackal ' berlusconi film creates a stir african disability beats hit the uk most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened bare barbies in knickerless cage knox prosecutors seek life term chavez hails ' carlos the jackal ' senate healthcare vote ' assured ' teenager ' stabbed and run over ' french hand-wringing over dubious win gaza militants ' to end rockets ' mumbai suspects arrested in italy fish ' at risk ' in acidified ocean archbishop and pope make progress most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened somali mystery sparks us terror fears disabled congolese band rocks the uk berlusconi 's best blunders affectionate cat distracts policeman town centre flood damage revealed firefighters tackle australia fires severe flooding affects the north berlusconi film creates a stir raf rescues flood victims latest video games reviewed most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis hand-wringing french angst after dubious football win over ireland tough lessons why obama is finding mid-east peace a struggle enabling rhythms congo band shines despite disability and poverty most popular now most popular now -pipe- 28,829 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
