swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis 07 dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats 07 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - highlights of the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour summer music days in hitzacker listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report euro 2012 live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's euro 2012 qualifier against austria : june 3 , 18:15 utc © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats 9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour mco residency in north-rhine westphalia listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra international listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
france hit by strike action -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 22.05.2008 france hit by strike action großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many trains were cancelled thursday french unions were staging walkouts thursday , may 22 , against president nicolas sarkozy 's plans to reform public sector pensions . strikes were putting the brakes on train services across france on thursday , may 22 , as rail workers led a national stoppage .
only half of trains were running during a day of protests against pension reforms that the government says are needed to fill empty state coffers and restore the country 's economic vitality .
although there was major disruption in marseille , the expected rush-hour chaos was limited in paris and other major cities , as the unions stuck to new rules on running a minimum service during strikes .
while airports experienced delays , two out of three high speed trains continued to run and schools remained open .
other sectors were also showing their displeasure , with port workers striking over plans to privatize part of their industry and fishermen disrupting shipping in a fight against rising fuel costs .
postal , utility and telecoms workers also stayed away their jobs in large numbers .
major queues of trucks also built up at the english channel port of calais because of a strike against dock privatization - and morning radio slots were replaced by music on public stations .
show of unity the country 's five largest unions called on their members to take to the streets in 80 cities to denounce the government 's plans to extend from 40 to 41 years the time on the job needed to collect full pension .
tens of thousands of workers responded to the call .
between 40,000 protestors , according to police , and 150,000 , according to unions turned out for early protests in nantes , rouen and le havre in the west , grenoble and marseille in the southeast and clermont-ferrand in central france .
the protest is the latest against a series of reforms by president nicolas sarkozy , who came to office a year ago on a pledge to modernize france and cut the state 's budget deficit .
his government insists that rising life expectancy coupled with weak public finances means the retirement age must rise - as it has elsewhere in europe , including in germany .
widespread protest with six in 10 french people saying they support the movement , the unions were pinning the success of their protest on the number of people turning out for their rallies , with 500,000 expected in paris later on thursday for the main march .
" the scale of the protests will show that the government will have to review its plans under pressure , " bernard thibault , head of the cgt union , told france 2 television .
" our aim is to have the maximum number of workers express their disapproval , " he said .
according to reuters , opponents to the government 's plans say the real problem is that many companies systematically get rid of workers in their 50s , who then collect generous benefits until they can formally retire .
they say the government should tackle this problem first .
not the first time but sarkozy shows little sign of reversing his plans , and has promised to unleash a fresh wave of reforms to improve the efficiency of the state in coming months .
he had a showdown with the unions last november , when transport workers held a crippling nine-day strike against plans to scrap the special pension rights of mainly public-sector workers .
although it won that fight , the government might this time be forced to negotiate a compromise to get the agreement of the unions in order to carry out the next stage of its planned reforms . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one year on , hopes in french president plummet a year after his election win , french president nicolas sarkozy 's ratings have nosedived amid irritation at his flamboyant lifestyle and economic woes .
but some say the french want to have their cake and eat it .
-lrb- 06.05.2008 -rrb- french voters punish sarkozy in local elections nicolas sarkozy 's ump party suffered a blow in french municipal elections , losing important conservative strongholds to the left .
the socialists called the results a " vote of hope . " -lrb- 17.03.2008 -rrb- public service sectors suffer from strikes across germany strikes in various public services sectors in 11 german states are threatening to throw the country into chaos .
verdi , a giant services trade union , called for the strikes in protest over ongoing wage negotiations .
-lrb- 03.03.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
france hit by strike action -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 22.05.2008 france hit by strike action großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many trains were cancelled thursday french unions were staging walkouts thursday , may 22 , against president nicolas sarkozy 's plans to reform public sector pensions . strikes were putting the brakes on train services across france on thursday , may 22 , as rail workers led a national stoppage .
only half of trains were running during a day of protests against pension reforms that the government says are needed to fill empty state coffers and restore the country 's economic vitality .
although there was major disruption in marseille , the expected rush-hour chaos was limited in paris and other major cities , as the unions stuck to new rules on running a minimum service during strikes .
while airports experienced delays , two out of three high speed trains continued to run and schools remained open .
other sectors were also showing their displeasure , with port workers striking over plans to privatize part of their industry and fishermen disrupting shipping in a fight against rising fuel costs .
postal , utility and telecoms workers also stayed away their jobs in large numbers .
major queues of trucks also built up at the english channel port of calais because of a strike against dock privatization - and morning radio slots were replaced by music on public stations .
show of unity the country 's five largest unions called on their members to take to the streets in 80 cities to denounce the government 's plans to extend from 40 to 41 years the time on the job needed to collect full pension .
tens of thousands of workers responded to the call .
between 40,000 protestors , according to police , and 150,000 , according to unions turned out for early protests in nantes , rouen and le havre in the west , grenoble and marseille in the southeast and clermont-ferrand in central france .
the protest is the latest against a series of reforms by president nicolas sarkozy , who came to office a year ago on a pledge to modernize france and cut the state 's budget deficit .
his government insists that rising life expectancy coupled with weak public finances means the retirement age must rise - as it has elsewhere in europe , including in germany .
widespread protest with six in 10 french people saying they support the movement , the unions were pinning the success of their protest on the number of people turning out for their rallies , with 500,000 expected in paris later on thursday for the main march .
" the scale of the protests will show that the government will have to review its plans under pressure , " bernard thibault , head of the cgt union , told france 2 television .
" our aim is to have the maximum number of workers express their disapproval , " he said .
according to reuters , opponents to the government 's plans say the real problem is that many companies systematically get rid of workers in their 50s , who then collect generous benefits until they can formally retire .
they say the government should tackle this problem first .
not the first time but sarkozy shows little sign of reversing his plans , and has promised to unleash a fresh wave of reforms to improve the efficiency of the state in coming months .
he had a showdown with the unions last november , when transport workers held a crippling nine-day strike against plans to scrap the special pension rights of mainly public-sector workers .
although it won that fight , the government might this time be forced to negotiate a compromise to get the agreement of the unions in order to carry out the next stage of its planned reforms . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one year on , hopes in french president plummet a year after his election win , french president nicolas sarkozy 's ratings have nosedived amid irritation at his flamboyant lifestyle and economic woes .
but some say the french want to have their cake and eat it .
-lrb- 06.05.2008 -rrb- french voters punish sarkozy in local elections nicolas sarkozy 's ump party suffered a blow in french municipal elections , losing important conservative strongholds to the left .
the socialists called the results a " vote of hope . " -lrb- 17.03.2008 -rrb- public service sectors suffer from strikes across germany strikes in various public services sectors in 11 german states are threatening to throw the country into chaos .
verdi , a giant services trade union , called for the strikes in protest over ongoing wage negotiations .
-lrb- 03.03.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think sarkozy should modify his reform plans ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
france hit by strike action -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 22.05.2008 france hit by strike action großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many trains were cancelled thursday french unions were staging walkouts thursday , may 22 , against president nicolas sarkozy 's plans to reform public sector pensions . strikes were putting the brakes on train services across france on thursday , may 22 , as rail workers led a national stoppage .
only half of trains were running during a day of protests against pension reforms that the government says are needed to fill empty state coffers and restore the country 's economic vitality .
although there was major disruption in marseille , the expected rush-hour chaos was limited in paris and other major cities , as the unions stuck to new rules on running a minimum service during strikes .
while airports experienced delays , two out of three high speed trains continued to run and schools remained open .
other sectors were also showing their displeasure , with port workers striking over plans to privatize part of their industry and fishermen disrupting shipping in a fight against rising fuel costs .
postal , utility and telecoms workers also stayed away their jobs in large numbers .
major queues of trucks also built up at the english channel port of calais because of a strike against dock privatization - and morning radio slots were replaced by music on public stations .
show of unity the country 's five largest unions called on their members to take to the streets in 80 cities to denounce the government 's plans to extend from 40 to 41 years the time on the job needed to collect full pension .
tens of thousands of workers responded to the call .
between 40,000 protestors , according to police , and 150,000 , according to unions turned out for early protests in nantes , rouen and le havre in the west , grenoble and marseille in the southeast and clermont-ferrand in central france .
the protest is the latest against a series of reforms by president nicolas sarkozy , who came to office a year ago on a pledge to modernize france and cut the state 's budget deficit .
his government insists that rising life expectancy coupled with weak public finances means the retirement age must rise - as it has elsewhere in europe , including in germany .
widespread protest with six in 10 french people saying they support the movement , the unions were pinning the success of their protest on the number of people turning out for their rallies , with 500,000 expected in paris later on thursday for the main march .
" the scale of the protests will show that the government will have to review its plans under pressure , " bernard thibault , head of the cgt union , told france 2 television .
" our aim is to have the maximum number of workers express their disapproval , " he said .
according to reuters , opponents to the government 's plans say the real problem is that many companies systematically get rid of workers in their 50s , who then collect generous benefits until they can formally retire .
they say the government should tackle this problem first .
not the first time but sarkozy shows little sign of reversing his plans , and has promised to unleash a fresh wave of reforms to improve the efficiency of the state in coming months .
he had a showdown with the unions last november , when transport workers held a crippling nine-day strike against plans to scrap the special pension rights of mainly public-sector workers .
although it won that fight , the government might this time be forced to negotiate a compromise to get the agreement of the unions in order to carry out the next stage of its planned reforms . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one year on , hopes in french president plummet a year after his election win , french president nicolas sarkozy 's ratings have nosedived amid irritation at his flamboyant lifestyle and economic woes .
but some say the french want to have their cake and eat it .
-lrb- 06.05.2008 -rrb- french voters punish sarkozy in local elections nicolas sarkozy 's ump party suffered a blow in french municipal elections , losing important conservative strongholds to the left .
the socialists called the results a " vote of hope . " -lrb- 17.03.2008 -rrb- public service sectors suffer from strikes across germany strikes in various public services sectors in 11 german states are threatening to throw the country into chaos .
verdi , a giant services trade union , called for the strikes in protest over ongoing wage negotiations .
-lrb- 03.03.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress as south sudan independence nears , threat of death is constant listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live sondersendung we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis 9798 dw-tv europe live germany today - window on germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis 9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - highlights of the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress as south sudan independence nears , threat of death is constant listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with violinist henning kraggerud listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet greening europe 's farms listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round five picks dw sports sizes up the round five match-ups in the bundesliga ... and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round six picks dw sports sizes up the round six match-ups in the bundesliga with a dose of cautious optimism .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds maike mia höhne - curator berlinale shorts listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today - the science magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round five picks dw sports sizes up the round five match-ups in the bundesliga ... and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and pespectives from the heart of europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week liquid assets listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds maike mia höhne - curator berlinale shorts listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week traditions of the advent season listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis 9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds remembering the late dame joan sutherland listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis 9800 dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet food , corruption , cradles and hamsters listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats 9800 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats 9800 dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 2 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis 9801 dw-tv europe live germany today - window on germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis 9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
panini albums women 's soccer gets its first panini albums , forty years after the sticker-collecting hobby began .
watch the video education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round six picks dw sports sizes up the round six match-ups in the bundesliga with a dose of cautious optimism .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- feedback did you watch the match - what did you think ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
manchester united scoop champions league title -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 22.05.2008 manchester united scoop champions league title großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a triumphant win for man u manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double . the match finished 1-1 after extra time , with john terry missing a penalty in a tense shootout that would have given chelsea the title , while van der sar then saved from nicolas anelka to give sir alex ferguson 's side their third win , after their 1968 and 1999 triumphs .
after two successful penalties apiece , chelsea had the upper hand when ronaldo 's shot was well saved by petr cech , but terry slipped as he took his penalty and watched as it hit the post .
anderson and giggs then kept united in front , but anelka 's penalty was well saved by united 's dutch goalkeeper .
" we do it the hard way , " united manager ferguson said .
" it 's the first penalty shootout in a big game i have ever won . "
" i think we deserved to win it , " he said .
" we were fantastic in the first half , we should have been 3-0 up and then they got a lucky goal .
they were the better side in the second half .
it 's an amazing achievement . "
ronaldo 's relief the win was welcomed by ronaldo in particular , who thought he had cost united the trophy .
" i do n't know what to say , " the portugal striker said .
" i thought we were going to lose after i missed .
i felt it was the worst day of my life but i feel very proud - now it 's the best day of my life . "
sir bobby charlton , who won the trophy in 1968 and who was a survivor of the munich air disaster in 1958 which cost the lives of 23 people , went up ahead of the united players as they collected their winners ' medals .
and ryan giggs , who broke charlton 's record of 758 appearances for united when he came on as a second-half substitute , joined rio ferdinand to lift the trophy .
exciting game united dominated the first half in terms of possession but neither side even had a shot before cristiano ronaldo opened the scoring on 26 minutes .
a great counter-attack from united almost brought a second goal eight minutes later , wayne rooney spreading a long ball to ronaldo , who took the ball down and crossed to carlos tevez , but his diving header was well-saved by cech , who then got up to make another excellent stop from carrick .
tevez had another chance to double united 's lead when he got his studs to a great cross from rooney but after ferdinand was booked for a check on lampard , chelsea leveled completely against the run of play .
a long shot from michael essien was going nowhere before it deflected off a defender and on to ferdinand 's back , falling perfectly for lampard , who flicked the ball over van der sar .
in the pouring rain , chelsea were then the better side in the second half , with didier drogba going closest to the winner as his shot rebounded off the post .
essien and ballack both fired over from good positions , while vidic produced a superb clearing to deny another chance .
united brought on giggs for paul scholes late on , but the match went to extra time and chelsea almost took the lead when lampard was desperately unlucky to see his left-foot strike hit the crossbar .
drogba was sent off in the second period for a slap on nemanja vidic but chelsea hung on to force penalties .
tevez , ballack , carrick and juliano belletti - with his first touch - all scored from the spot to make it 2-2 , but ronaldo then saw his spot-kick saved by cech to his right .
the best side lampard , owen hargreaves , ashley cole and nani scored to leave chelsea captain john terry to win it for chelsea but his left foot slipped as he took the kick and his shot squirmed onto the post .
lampard said that none of his teammates would ever criticize terry .
" there are not many center-halves who will take such an important penalty , " he said .
" we are very disappointed , but we will come back .
i thought we deserved the victory , but not to take anything away from manchester united , they were the better side in the first half . "
anderson and salomon kalou scored before giggs sent cech the wrong way and then van der sar made himself a united hero by saving superbly from chelsea substitute anelka .
" i can enjoy it a little bit more , " giggs said , comparing it to united 's win in 1999 .
" tonight , it 's brilliant .
we deserved it - we played really well in the first half and i think we were the better side . " dpa news agency -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de champions league semis a step too far for shaky schalke schalke 04 , the last german team in the champions league , went to the nou camp in barcelona with their dreams of a semi-final place still alive .
despite another poor show by their hosts , schalke failed to capitalize .
-lrb- 10.04.2008 -rrb- schalke 's coach promises tougher champions league re-match schalke 's coach mirko slomka said his team showed barcelona too much respect during their recent champions league quarter final match , but promised to do better when the two teams meet next week for the second leg .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- schalke beat porto for spot in champions league quarterfinals after a series of bundesliga disappointments , schalke progressed in the champions league after a 4-1 win on penalties against porto .
that was thanks to a star performance from young keeper manuel neuer .
-lrb- 06.03.2008 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft - das wissenschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 22.05.2008 german security chief warns of growing terrorism threat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany is on the alert after recent al qaeda threats germany 's top security official said in an interview that confirmation of germany 's first suicide bomber blowing himself up in afghanistan and recent al qaeda threats represent a real and growing terrorism danger . in a wide-ranging interview with news agency reuters , joerg ziercke , head of germany 's federal crime office -lrb- bka -rrb- , warned of a rising risk of terrorism on german soil carried out by homegrown militants .
" we now have the first suicide attacker who grew up in germany and committed such an act abroad , " ziercke told reuters in the interview published on thursday , may 22 .
" we must assume that something like that can also happen over here , although we have no concrete evidence . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ziercke is worried by growing signs of radicalization in germany ziercke said dna analysis had confirmed that a man who blew himself up in a terrorist attack on a compound used by nato and afghan forces , which killed several people in march this year , was a german national .
the 28-year-old , identified as cuneyt ciftci , was a turk who grew up in bavaria .
referring to a video circulated on the internet of ciftci 's grinning face , ziercke said the aim of the propaganda was to radicalize muslims in germany .
" the goal of the video is to show him as an example , so that others follow , " ziercke said .
" unfortunately , there appears to be a receptive audience . "
al qaeda eyeing islamists in the west germany 's top security official said a growing number of islamists from germany had visited terrorist training camps in afghanistan and pakistan in the past few years .
" we know that since 2001 between 25 and 30 -lsb- people from germany -rsb- were in the camps and about 15 of those are believed to be dangerous , " he said .
" many of them have come back to germany and are being watched . "
earlier this month , a report by germany 's office for the protection of the constitution said islamist terrorists are increasingly setting their sights on germany and view the country as an " operational area . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a target for terrorism germany 's growing military presence in afghanistan and its role in training iraqi security forces had made it a target for islamic terrorists , the report pointed out .
ziercke said al qaeda was seeking to recruit islamists living in the west .
" al qaeda 's intention is clear , " ziercke continued .
" they want to win over those who , through their looks and knowledge of the structures , find it easier to prepare attacks within our society .
that 's the current strategy . "
he underlined the growing role played by the internet in al qaeda 's recruitment plans .
" anyone who wants to visit a training camp in afghanistan has to bring their own laptop so they can be shown how to communicate in code . "
germany a target ziercke called " worrying " a recent slew of al qaeda threats in the first five months of this year .
the terror group led by bin laden released five tapes in the past six months , nearly as many as in the last three years .
" we interpret this as a clear sign that al qaeda wants to show itself confident and strong and that it thinks it 's able to prepare attacks .
this worries us , although there is no concrete evidence of attacks at the moment , " ziercke said .
but the security official said germany had been explicitly mentioned in 14 al qaeda statements since 2001 .
" we 're highly attentive .
we 've been mentioned extensively in statements by -lsb- al qaeda leader osama -rsb- bin laden and -lsb- al qaeda 's no. 2 ayman -rsb- al-zawahri .
since 2001 , there have been 14 statements mentioning germany , " he said .
" the recent comments show that germany and other european countries are targets . "
unlike spain or britain , germany has so far escaped a major terrorism attack .
last year , authorities arrested three men in sauerland , western germany , for planning attacks against us installations on german soil . dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ten detained in europe for uzbek terror ties police in france , germany and the netherlands detained 10 people on suspicion of having financial ties to an uzbek group linked to al qaeda .
-lrb- 16.05.2008 -rrb- islamist terrorism biggest threat to germany , minister says islamist terrorism is the greatest threat to the security and stability of germany , interior minister wolfgang schaeuble said in berlin on thursday , may 15 .
-lrb- 15.05.2008 -rrb- police suspect islamist group of recruiting militants prosecutors said that german police had staged a series of nationwide raids in an investigation into a radical islamist group .
the inquiry did not include any charges of terrorism .
-lrb- 23.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you agree that germany 's military involvement in afghanistan makes it a potential target for terrorists ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it ! - the motor magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress broadcasting independent news to sealed-off north korea listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany hits in germany at eurosonic 2011 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european ties -pipe- 22.05.2008 poland , sweden want closer ties with eu 's eastern neighbors großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some eu members feel the bloc should look east for more cooperation with its neighbors as eu officials mull a mediterranean union to bring in the bloc 's southern neighbors , some eastern members want a similar initiative to focus on former soviet states .
but it would n't include the region 's biggest player . polish premier donald tusk and his swedish counterpart , fredrik reinfeldt , are expected to present a plan to their eu colleagues in june that will call for more cooperation with ukraine , moldova , georgia , armenia and azerbaijan , according to news reports .
even belarus , which has been ostracized because of its dictatorial regime , would be invited to participate - albeit on a reduced level . " we would like to see the eu upgrading its contacts with the east at a time the eu is upgrading relations with the mediterranean region , " an unnamed polish diplomat told reuters news service . called the eastern partnership , the new initiative would offer participating countries liberalized trade , the lifting of travel restrictions , cultural exchanges and aid programs .
the eastern partners , in return , would be expected to push ahead with political and economic reforms . little extra bureaucracy unlike the mediterranean union , the eastern partnership would not have its own secretariat , but would be run by the european commission and financed from the european neighborhood policy budget , web site euobserver.com reported , adding that a commission official would be appointed as " special coordinator . " the plan falls short of giving countries any prospects of eu membership , as western european states are wary of any further expansion drives at the moment .
poland , however , does back eventual membership for ukraine , georgia and moldova . france , which takes over the rotating eu presidency in july , is planning to offer ukraine stronger ties to the eu after the bloc launched a free trade pact with the country earlier this year . poland 's premier , meanwhile , is expected to discuss a stronger eastern policy with french president nicolas sarkozy when the latter comes to warsaw for a long-delayed visit next week . special treatment for moscow the region 's heavy-weight , russia , will not be invited to join the partnership under the initial proposal .
eu officials on wednesday , however , agreed to initiate separate talks on a wide-ranging cooperation agreement , according to reuters . eu foreign ministers are likely to discuss the idea at their meeting in brussels on monday , may 26 .
the plan has reportedly been well-received by the eu commission as well as key member states , including britain , france , germany and the netherlands .
italy , portugal and spain , on the other hand , are skeptical , reports said . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu plans smaller union for the mediterranean the european union has announced its vision for an association of the eu and other states bordering the mediterranean .
but it falls short of what sponsor france originally wanted .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- report : slovenia ties georgia visit to lithuania 's eu-russia veto eu president slovenia warned saturday , may 10 , it could skip a five-nation foreign ministers ' mission to georgia that aims to cool tensions with russia , unless lithuania drops its veto on separate eu-russia talks .
-lrb- 10.05.2008 -rrb- eu walks fine line on trade and human rights in central asia europe has belatedly discovered central asia as an energy supplier .
but with its focus on human rights , the eu is likely to have a tougher time wooing the region 's nations than russia and china .
-lrb- 09.04.2008 -rrb- www-links eu ties with eastern europe more information on the eu 's web site feedback what do you think about the eastern partnership ?
is a good idea ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds patricia kopatchinskaja – violinist listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 22.05.2008 berlin philharmonic fire damage not as bad as feared großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : it could have been worse damage from the blaze at the berlin philharmonic this week is not as bad as initially feared - and the all-important main auditorium escaped harm , officials and the fire brigade said on thursday , may 22 . andre schmitz , state secretary for culture in berlin 's city government , said the worst fears had not been confirmed . the main auditorium had no visible damage and chances were good that it would open again " very quickly , " he said .
he told inforadio that the fire was caused by repair work being carried out on the roof and had destroyed some 1,600 square meters -lrb- 17,200 square feet -rrb- of the roof .
experts have confirmed there is no risk that the building will collapse .
" water damage -lsb- from putting out the fire -rsb- on the whole is light and does not concern the main auditorium , " a spokesman for the berlin fire brigade told afp news agency .
however , according to police sources , the damage incurred will still cost millions of euros .
negligence ?
the blaze began in the early afternoon on tuesday , just as a lunchtime concert in the foyer was coming to an end .
several hundred concert-goers along with musicians clutching their instruments were evacuated , and all escaped injury .
smoke poured out from the roof of the golden , wing-tipped building in the heart of the capital and was only extinguished fully the following morning .
an investigation into the cause began wednesday .
according to a police spokesperson , negligent arson has not been ruled out .
business as usual meanwhile , the berlin philharmonic orchestra 's director , pamela rosenberg , announced wednesday that business as usual would be resuming on june 2 .
for the time being , two eagerly awaited beethoven and berlioz concerts with renowned italian conductor claudio abbado scheduled for the weekend are to be held at the waldbuehne venue instead .
the 500 firemen and police deployed during the blaze have been given free tickets .
" the location of any blaze is irrelevant to our firefighters , " said firefighter spokesman jen-peter wilke .
" their sole goal is to extinguish it .
but on tuesday it was apparent that the team was very aware that this is a building with special significance , and they were more motivated than ever . "
landmark designed by architect hans scharoun and opened in 1963 , the philharmonic has hosted some of the world 's greatest conductors , including herbert von karajan .
the orchestra 's current principal conductor is britain 's simon rattle .
the auditorium 's acoustics are considered to be among the best in the world and its design influenced the construction of many other concert halls . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fire at berlin philharmonic concert hall under control more than 100 firemen were deployed tuesday to fight a fire that broke out simultaneously with a lunch-time concert in the venerated concert hall .
they managed to get it under control by sunset .
-lrb- 20.05.2008 -rrb- herbert von karajan 100th anniversary 100 years ago on april the 5th , herbert von karajan was born in the austrian city of salzburg .
he ’ s one of the most prominent conductors of the 20th century , having directed the berlin philharmonic for thirty-five years .
-lrb- 05.04.2008 -rrb- german orchestra takes richard wagner to abu dhabi the new york philharmonic is hardly the only orchestra to have visited a " hostile " country .
dw spoke to jan nast , orchestral director of dresden 's staatskapelle , about whether music can build bridges between cultures .
-lrb- 05.03.2008 -rrb- feedback have you ever visited the berlin philharmonic ?
what did you think of it ?
send us an e-mail and please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 1 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 22.05.2008 basque terror group eta : decapitated , but not dead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " long live eta , " lopez pena kept screaming as he was led away the arrest of the alleged leader of basque terror group eta has dealt a blow to the organization , but it 's unlikely to bring an end to attacks in spain , according to experts . shortly before midnight on tuesday , may 20 , spanish and french special forces raided an apartment near the train station in bordeaux .
the four people inside it were armed , but had no time to resist arrest . one of those arrested was javier lopez pena , also known as " thierry . "
he 'll turn 50 next week and is seen as the head of the terror group eta .
spanish interior minister alfredo perez rubalcaba said that this was " not just another arrest , " adding that investigators had caught the person " with the most military and political weight in eta . "
three other high-ranking eta terrorists , two men and a woman , were also taken into custody . javier lopez pena is seen as an uncompromising hardliner within eta .
he 's allegedly responsible for pushing the organization back to a strategy of terror .
according to investigators , he ordered the bomb attack on madrid 's barajas airport in december 2006 that killed two ecuadorians . a string of attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : madrid 's airport after the bombing the attack ended a ceasefire that eta and the socialist government of jose luis rodriguez zapatero had agreed on .
since then , eta has bombed itself back into the minds of spaniards . two days ahead of the march parliamentary elections , eta killed a former socialist city councilman in front of his wife and daughter .
last week , a guardia civil police officer died in a bomb attack .
eta had not issued its customary warning ahead of the bombing .
and on monday , eta exploded a bomb outside a yacht club frequented by basque entrepreneurs . " without a doubt , the arrests are a hard blow to eta , " said soeren brinkmann , an expert on spain at the university of nuremberg-erlangen .
" but it 's not the death blow to the terror organization . " brinkmann added that he expected more bomb attacks .
he believes that eta used the 2006 ceasefire to regroup and renew its structures . " eta presented itself stronger than ever in 2007 , " he said . spain 's hydra bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eta has always managed to regroup during the 40 years of eta 's existence , people have often talked about a " hard blow " to the terror group .
there 's a long list of high-ranking eta members who have been arrested .
but new heads kept emerging as old ones were cut off .
the one thing that was for certain was that there would always be another bomb . ludger mees , a german professor who has been studying basque nationalism at the university of bilbao for years , also does n't believe the end of eta is near . " i 'm optimistic , though , because the backing for eta has radically dropped , " he said , adding that even radical basques no longer believe that it 's legitimate to kill for an independent basque country . no time to talk bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : most spaniards want peace , but when will it come ?
the region will continue to remain the bone of contention for spain 's democracy .
the nationalist basque head of government juan jose ibarretxe wants a referendum in october to decide on basque country 's right to self-determination .
he plans to let the basque parliament vote on this in june , but even his own party is deeply split on the matter .
the central government in madrid , however , categorically rejects the plan as unconstitutional . " we will not accept adventures and journeys that lead nowhere , " zapatero said tuesday after meeting ibarretxe in madrid . the experts do n't expect zapatero to change his anti-terror policies in the near future .
he abruptly changed his strategy after eta ended the ceasefire and has become " less willing to compromise than ever , " brinkmann said . political observers believe it 's highly unlikely new negotiations with eta will take place any time soon . steffen leidel -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de spain 's re-elected zapatero faces long list of challenges spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero 's premiership was reconfirmed by parliament friday , april 11 .
he faces a second term of economic challenges and continuing concerns over regional separatism .
-lrb- 11.04.2008 -rrb- basques hope for change despite setbacks statehood remains an elusive goal for basque nationalists .
yet there 's continued hope that they can follow the example of other european countries and find a peaceful resolution to their ongoing conflict with spain .
-lrb- 01.02.2008 -rrb- opinion : spanish socialists ca n't risk complacency spain 's ruling socialists won a second term in elections sunday , march 9 , but they 're not in a position to rest on the laurels , says guenther maihold from the german institute for international and security affairs .
-lrb- 10.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic arrests deal hard blow to eta alleged eta leader arrested in france feedback do you think spain should give indpendence to basque country to end the violence ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply . dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature week three picks dw sports sizes up the week three match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live glaubenssachen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german nudist flight scrapped -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 22.05.2008 german nudist flight scrapped großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nudist bathing was extremely popular in former communist east germany a german travel company said it has decided to cancel a special nude charter flight that had been scheduled for this summer to a popular baltic sea destination despite being fully booked . the july 5 flight to the popular baltic sea resort of usedom was due to be the first of many and was aimed at east germans nostalgic for the naturism that was authorised and extremely popular under communist rule .
but ossiurlaub.de , the firm organising the service to a picturesque baltic sea island , said it has had second thoughts after " moral objections " in the media and from visitors to its internet portal , a spokesman said .
the 50 people with tickets would have boarded the flight in the eastern city of erfurt fully clothed , but once on the plane would have been free to undress and enjoy the rest of the journey without a stitch on .
they will now receive a full refund as well as a voucher for other products offered by the company , whose core business caters to holidaymakers who keep their clothes on , it stressed .
the travel agency created a stir in the media earlier this year with its plans for the first nudist charter flight to the baltic sea . " in the former east germany , naturist holidays were a much-loved way of spending the best weeks of the year , " the founder of ossiurlaub.de , enrico hess said at the time .
" we want to make that freedom possible above the clouds , too . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel agency offers nude flights for german naturists to cater to eastern germany 's high proportion of naturists , an internet travel agency based in erfurt is offering a special flight to popular vacation spot , usedom .
the catch ?
before take-off , you have to strip off .
-lrb- 28.01.2008 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the scrapped nudist flight ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de euro 2008 -pipe- 22.05.2008 ballack blow could lead to glory , says germany coach loew großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a crushed ballack after chelsea lost to man u on penalties german soccer star michael ballack 's latest heartbreak in the champions league final against manchester united could drive his nation to euro 2008 glory , according to germany coach joachim loew . if the measure of a person can be gauged by how they react to adversity then michael ballack could be described as a player of huge substance .
every soccer player experiences disappointment in their career as a matter of course - you ca n't win ' em all , as the old adage goes - but ballack has lost some of the most defining games of his career and still manages to reassemble himself after such shattering defeats .
the fact that he was a driving force in chelsea 's run to this year 's champions league final - and also a catalyst for his team 's quest for the english premiership title which went to the final game of the season - says much about a man who has taken blows which would have weighed heavy on lesser players .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loew has faith that his captain 's focus will be on success his latest crushing disappointment - losing wednesday night 's champions league final against manchester united on penalties - is unlikely to have a long-term effect on the dynamic midfielder and could actually drive him on to lead his country to european championship glory in switzerland and austria this summer .
this is the opinion of joachim loew , ballack 's international coach , who said in the aftermath of the dramatic spot-kick loss in moscow that his captain would rebound from the defeat with a strong showing at euro 2008 .
german captain expected to bounce back " he will suffer for two or three days , it is only natural that there is big disappointment .
but now there is a new aim for him , " loew told reporters after chelsea had been beaten 6-5 by the team which also pipped them to the league title just over a week ago .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack 's passion at chelsea has endeared him to fans " he played very strongly and appeared very fit , " added loew , who also spoke out on the fact that ballack was the first chelsea player in the shootout .
" there is extra pressure to shoot the first penalty .
manchester were leading , it 's almost all over if you miss .
the way he delivered was very good . "
with a strong display in the final and a well dispatched penalty in the shoot-out , ballack again showed why chelsea moved for his services in 2006 and enhanced his reputation further with the london club 's faithful after overcoming a difficult first season in england and an injury-blighted second .
previous defeats drive ballack on appearing in a european final in a team consistently challenging for domestic and continental silverware could be seen as a testament to ballack 's powers of recovery .
six years ago , he was a champions league loser with the bayer leverkusen team which was defeated by a moment of zinedine zidane magic in glasgow .
after taking the lead against real madrid , ballack and his leverkusen team mates had to swallow a close 2-1 reverse , a victory for the spanish team sealed with a sublime volley from the mercurial frenchman .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ballack was banned from the 2002 world cup final only a week before , bayer leverkusen - who had led the bundesliga by nine points at one stage of the 2002 season - lost the league title in germany on the last day of the season .
adding weight to the superstition that bad things come in threes , ballack was also on the losing side in the german cup final that season .
continuing his annus horribilis , ballack went to that summer 's world cup in japan and korea and put in some match winning performances only to be suspended for the final that germany eventually lost 2-0 to brazil .
bayern success never healed euro pain some might say that picking up three bundesliga titles and three german cups with bayern munich in the years that followed may have broken any curse but wiping the floor with germany 's also-rans could never be compared with challenging for the top titles on the european and international stage .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's 2006 world cup defeat hit ballack hard in 2005 , germany had a great chance to win the confederations cup - the precursor for the following year 's world cup contested by the championship hosts and the five fifa federation winners - and under ballack 's captaincy , it nearly came to pass .
but a 3-2 semi-final loss to eventual winners brazil ended that dream .
a year later , with a frenzied home nation bellowing them on , ballack led germany in the world cup and was barely seconds from a penalty shoot-out which could have seen the hosts through to the final when italy 's alessandro del piero ended the home team 's campaign .
ballack joins chelsea to hunt elusive titles the disappointment was not enough to dull his desire and ballack moved to england in the quest for glory .
chelsea were reportedly paying him 163,000 euros -lrb- $ 321,000 -rrb- a week for the opportunity to hunt down the trophies which had eluded him so far .
and while he may have come within touching distance once more of lifting the european cup only to be denied it at the last minute , ballack is expected to show his resilience once more at euro 2008 .
" michael has made a big leap forward , he is physically even stronger than at the 2006 world cup , " said loew .
germany will be hoping his mental strength has also expanded . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de manchester united scoop champions league title manchester united beat chelsea 6-5 on penalties in moscow wednesday night to claim the champions league for the third time in their history , completing an english league and european double .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- hint at retirement raises questions over ballack 's legacy michael ballack is the biggest german soccer star in years : success at home and abroad , captain of his country , immense wealth .
but has he done enough to be regarded as a legend should he retire at the tender age of 31 ? -lrb- 30.01.2008 -rrb- ballack in london : from wild acclaim to crunch talks on future when michael ballack signed for english champions chelsea last may , he was expected to put the finishing touches to a squad of world-beaters .
by april 2007 , ballack was in the dock and chelsea 's season in tatters .
-lrb- 09.05.2007 -rrb- ballack and chelsea : a marriage of ambition and money although far from confirmed , it looks increasingly likely that english champions chelsea will sign michael ballack this summer .
it could be a good move for ballack but an ominous one for european soccer in general .
-lrb- 04.03.2006 -rrb- feedback would you consider michael ballack to be a german legend in the context of the success he has achieved ?
please include your full name and country with any reply . dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 22.05.2008 swedish nuclear reactor shut down after sabotage suspicions großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the area has been sealed off sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant shut down overnight after police detained two people for questioning on suspicion of planning sabotage . police and sniffer dogs were searching a reactor building at sweden 's oskarshamn nuclear power plant on thursday , may 22 , the day after two workers were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at the plant .
the two men , one of whom allegedly has a criminal record , were arrested a day earlier after traces of an explosive were detected during a spot security check .
the substance tatp was detected on the handle of a plastic bag one of the men , a welder , was carrying as he tried to enter the plant , plant spokesmen and police said .
according to bloomberg.com , tatp is one of the most sensitive explosives in the world because of its reactivity to heat , impact and friction and has been linked to various terrorist incidents .
the men were hired by a sub-contractor conducting routine maintenance work on one of the plant 's three reactors .
that reactor , number two , was not online .
precautionary measures reactor one was shut down overnight to allow police to search the premises after it had cooled down , oskarshamn plant chief executive lars thuring said .
the move was " precautionary " since the two men had security clearance to enter the area near that reactor building too , thuring added .
police spokesman sven-erik karlsson said the two men had declined an offer to have a lawyer present during questioning and were held on the lower degree of suspicion .
incriminating material police in kalmar also reported that further incriminating material was found during searches of the suspects ' houses , but did not release details .
it was this discovery that prompted police explosives experts to search the plant .
a plant spokesman said in a radio interview thursday morning that the search was continuing and so far had turned up nothing suspicious .
the plant is operated by the energy groups e.on of germany and finland 's fortum and produces about 10 percent of sweden 's electricity . dw staff -lrb- jp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de two arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage in sweden two men were arrested on suspicion of planning sabotage at a nuclear power plant in south-eastern sweden , police there said wednesday .
-lrb- 21.05.2008 -rrb- europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power .
-lrb- 22.05.2008 -rrb- germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- feedback do you think this incident shows what a risk nuclear plants can be to national security ?
send us an e-mail , and please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de nuclear power -pipe- 22.05.2008 europeans split over nuclear power and energy strategy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friend or foe - that 's being debated in prague ahead of a two-day european nuclear energy forum meeting , dw-world.de spoke to both sides of the debate over whether germany should stick to its total phase-out of nuclear power . the european nuclear energy forum was established in 2007 as a platform for discussing issues related to nuclear power - with an eye toward arriving at common eu policy .
it 's starting its two-day second session on thursday , may 22 , in prague . while the european commission has said that low-co2 emitting nuclear energy should make a " substantial contribution " to the eu energy mix , germany - the most populous eu member state and largest contributor to the eu budget - is committed to taking all its reactors offline by 2020 . that means there 's plenty to talk about in the czech republic .
one of the people at the table will be santiago san antonio , director general of foratom , the main lobbying organization for the european nuclear power industry .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the nuclear power industry says it can help reduce co2 emissions " nuclear power is needed if europe wants to meet the objective of a low co2 economy by the year 2020 and maintain competitive industry , " san antonio said .
" the price of energy is increasing every day , and nuclear electricity can be produced at a very stable cost . " but not everyone is happy with the enef 's pro-nuclear thrust . " the meeting is again taking place with close to no representatives of civil society or non-governmental organizations , " said green member of the european parliament rebecca harms , who will also be attending the meeting .
" the -lsb- european -rsb- commission originally promised a public and pluralistic debate on the future of nuclear energy , but the fact is that for the second time the commission is meeting especially with the representatives of the nuclear industry . " fractious fission bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : anti-nuclear activists say the eu has chosen the wrong strategy there is a dramatic nuclear divide in europe .
germany , austria , denmark , greece , ireland , italy and the netherlands are among the countries that either have no nuclear power plants or in the process of phasing them out . but france produces some 78 percent of its electricity with nuclear power , and there are plans to construct new reactors in many countries of formerly communist eastern europe . " the german government needs to take a strong position against the european commission , " harms said .
" the majority of european citizens , as shown by the most recent opinion polls of the european commission itself , are against a nuclear future in the european union . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's grand coalition remains bound by the previous government 's policy the nuclear power industry , however , is hoping that under conservative chancellor angela merkel germany will abandon the phase-out agreement , which was reached in 2000 under the previous social democratic-green government . " it 's a kind of gentleman 's agreement that could be changed at any time depending on the circumstances , " san antonio said .
" i think it would be a mistake for germany and some other nations to phase out nuclear energy when a barrel of oil costs has reached $ 130 . " oil futures in new york broke through $ 133 a barrel on wednesday . but maintaining the nuclear phase-out was one of the conditions for the current " grand coalition " between conservatives and social democrats , and merkel 's cabinet , for the time being , is sticking to that position . security versus savings ? bildunterschrift : there are nuclear power plants all over the world the nuclear industry argues that without atomic reactors europe wo n't be able to meet its targets for reducing co2 emissions and will make itself dependent on foreign energy sources . the current skyrocketing oil prices , and russian threats in the past two years to reduce or cut off gas exports , feed into that argumentation . " we import about 60 percent of energy from different countries , including russia , " san antonio said .
" and we have had some bad experiences in the past . " anti-nuclear activists reject that logic , saying emphasis should be placed on renewable sources and energy conservation . " what i can see after two years of heavy debate on climate change and the security of energy supplies is that , without putting the focus on energy savings and efficiency , no country in the world will be able to meet its climate goals , " harms said .
" the role of nuclear energy , compared to the combination of efficiency and renewables , is rather small . " power struggle bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has been accused of being too nuclear-friendly anti-nuclear activists say that prominent eu figures have overstepped their authority in proclaiming a strategy that includes nuclear energy . " european energy commissioner andris piebalgs has stated publically that he sees the necessity of a nuclear strategy to combat climate change - in complete contradiction to what the european council has decided so far , " harms said . harms also criticized european commission president jose manuel barroso for backing an agreement with the iaea and the european atomic energy community to develop nuclear power in countries she said lacked the proper infrastructure . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both sides say europe must break its dependence on foreign energy supplies but the industry says it 's high time to come up with a comprehensive european strategy that includes nuclear power . " what we need in europe is not just a nuclear energy policy , but an energy policy in general , " san antonio said .
" the vision we have is that the future is a mixture of nuclear power and renewables . " the other sources of energy are more expensive and produce more co2 , " san antonio added .
" so they have more inconveniences than advantages . " perhaps some day the enef will be a forum for reaching consensus across the nuclear divide in europe . but for the time being , the forum seems to be generating more heat than energy solutions . jefferson chase send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany : allowances for co2 emissions during nuke phase-out german economics minister michael glos is demanding allowances for higher co2 emissions resulting from the phase-out of nuclear energy , a german newspaper reported .
-lrb- 02.04.2008 -rrb- germany could suffer blackouts , energy boss warns a german energy boss has warned the country could experience long blackouts this summer due to a lack of power stations .
some government officials and renewable energy experts say he 's needlessly spreading panic .
-lrb- 28.02.2008 -rrb- german minister criticizes french nuclear stance german environment minister sigmar gabriel has taken a sideswipe at france for exporting nuclear technology .
french president nicolas sarkozy has placed the french nuclear industry at the heart of his foreign policy .
-lrb- 21.01.2008 -rrb- feedback should europe go more nuclear or not ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live immigration france plans to strip recent immigrants of their french citizenship if they commit serious crimes .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 violent crimes committed by young people in germany rose by almost 5 percent in 2007 the increased readiness of young people to turn violent is at least partly linked to increased consumption of alcohol , says german interior minister wolfgang schäuble . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 german crime stats feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top german 100 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic pod 220508 world food crisis feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 22.05.2008 german president koehler to run for second term in 2009 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : horst koehler 's reelection is not a sure thing german president horst koehler announced on thursday that he will run for a second five-year term in office next year .
while his reelection seemed all but certain , he could now face a challenger . koehler announced in berlin on thursday , may 22 , that he would run for a second and final five-year term next year , confirming widespread speculation . koehler , 65 , is germany 's ninth postwar president .
he succeeded johannes rau in the largely ceremonial office in 2004 . a member of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats -lrb- cdu -rrb- , koehler was managing director of the international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- before becoming german president .
he was previously head of the european bank for reconstruction and development . the german social democrats -lrb- spd -rrb- said thursday they would make an announcement on their possible candidate on monday . deja vu ? gesine schwan , 65 , president of the viadrina european university in frankfurt an der oder is seen as their likely candidate .
she lost to koehler by a narrow margin in the 2004 election .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gesine schwan will soon retire as university president although koehler enjoys considerable popularity among ordinary germans , observers said that in the event that schwan campaigned , the outcome of the election was uncertain . the german president is elected every five years by a federal assembly that convenes purely for this purpose and comprises members of the lower house of parliament , the bundestag , plus an equal number of representatives drawn from the 16 states . koehler himself caused controversy in the past when he suggested that the president should be elected by popular vote and only for a single , seven-year term . currently the parties backing koehler - the cdu , along with its bavarian sister-party , the christian social union -lrb- csu -rrb- and the liberal fdp - would have a majority in the assembly . but bavarian state elections in september could shift the balance towards the spd , whose candidate is likely to receive the backing of the greens and the socialist left party . the election , by secret ballot and without debate , is to be held on may 23 next year .
a maximum of two terms in office is permitted . dw staff -lrb- win -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de social democrats may put up female presidential candidate german university president gesine schwan has said she is ready to run for the presidency , a largely ceremonial position currently held by horst koehler .
-lrb- 19.05.2008 -rrb- the role of germany 's president who decides who gets the job - and what does germany 's president actually do ? -lrb- 04.03.2004 -rrb- german president calls financial markets a " monster " germany 's president horst koehler said that the crisis in the world financial markets came close to bringing about a general economic collapse .
he called the markets a monster that needs to be put in check .
-lrb- 14.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic president horst koehler will run for a second five-year term next year www-links german federal president more information on koehler 's activities and his role feedback do you think koehler should stay in office ? send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's -pipe- news -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de europe -pipe- 22.05.2008 europe 's rich-poor gap smaller than america 's großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the divide between rich and poor in most eu states is less than the us - but not in all states according to a new social report issued by the european commission , the gap in income between the rich and the poor in the eu is slightly less than that in the united states . however , the gap between the rich and poor in portugal , poland , lithuania and latvia is greater than that in the united states , according to the commission report .
the report shows that those most at risk of falling into poverty in the eu are single parents , the retired , the unemployed and families with only one income .
the report also shows that the risk of poverty is twice as high for people born outside the bloc who now live in the eu .
educational differences within eu there is also a marked difference in educational opportunities within the eu .
in germany , children of parents with low educational standards have a good chance of reaching higher education levels while children of graduates in germany have twice as much chance to go further in their studies .
however , the gap in most other eu countries is more evident with fewer children from families with a lower educational standard making it into higher education .
one aspect remains standard throughout the eu , the report says , and this is that a person 's background remains an important factor in getting access to education and job opportunities . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de one in eight germans lives in poverty one in eight germans lives in the poverty and the divide between rich and poor is growing , according to a new government report .
the labor minister said that 's evidence germany needs a minimum wage .
-lrb- 18.05.2008 -rrb- germany faces rich-poor divide , says president when german president horst köhler gave his second " berlin address " on monday , oct .
2 , he surprised many with statements that sounded positively left-leaning for a member of the conservative christian democratic party .
-lrb- 02.10.2007 -rrb- feedback is the claim that the divide between rich and poor in europe is less than that in the us a reason to celebrate ?
please include your full name and country with any reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 22.05.2008 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 22.05.2008 un forum says food crisis threatens basic rights the un human rights council hears how the dramatic rise in global prices is threatening the basic human right to food and may undermine others like health and education . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : pod 220508 world food crisis feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . picture of the day dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : music this week audio : hildegard knef - born december 28th 1925 audio : listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
dw-world : news dw-world : newslink dw-world : newslink plus dw-world : sports report dw-world : insight podcasting dw 's podcast offerings listen to dw programs whenever you want to . © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bbc news -pipe- africa -pipe- zimbabwe teachers face punishment bbc news / africa graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- 04:57 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 05:57 uk zimbabwe teachers face punishment brian hungwe harare zimbabwean school teacher patrick -lrb- not his real name -rrb- is angry and in pain .
he has three broken ribs , a bandaged right arm and is barely able to sit up ; traces of blood can be seen in the drip attached to his stomach . "
it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do " patrick two weeks ago he was beaten with iron bars in the northern mashonaland central province .
he says the ruling zanu-pf party youths who attacked him wanted to know why his school , used as a polling station in the 29 march elections , recorded a high figure of opposition voters .
" i am no longer going back to teaching , " he says from a private clinic in the capital , harare .
" it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do . "
backbone many teachers acted as polling officers on election day - and have done at every election since independence in 1980 .
they are the backbone of the country 's electoral process .
but in rural areas , several schools have been shut down because of political violence that has been unleashed since the march polls .
teachers are being targeted , the progressive teachers union of zimbabwe -lrb- ptuz -rrb- says , and many are now fleeing .
more than 5,000 teachers have been beaten , about 600 hospitalised and 231 teachers ' houses burnt , the union says .
raymond majongwe , ptuz secretary general , says the number of teachers being attacked is growing by the day and as a result the quality of education is suffering .
" the same teachers that are being pushed around and being beaten are no longer going to be giving their best , " he said . "
i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit " ptuz 's raymond majongwe " they will be looking over their shoulder every other time to see who is present , who is coming and who is advancing , " he said , describing their fear .
zimbabwe 's education system , once the envy of the region , has recorded its " worst year " , he said .
" i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit , " he said .
for the zimbabwe election commission , the massive displacement of teachers could prove a headache ahead of the planned presidential run-off on 27 june .
polling officers from different sectors will need to be recruited and trained .
difficult and it has not just been teachers under attack .
independent election observers have not been spared either . "
we will not risk our observers we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work " zesn chairman noel kutukwa the zimbabwe election support network -lrb- zesn -rrb- had more than 8,000 observers across the country during the march vote .
it says hundreds of them are now being persecuted ahead of the run-off .
and despite the courage to go on , it is fast losing members willing to take part because of the continued crackdown .
zesn admits monitoring the run-off will be an extremely difficult task .
but zesn chairman noel kutukwa is not giving up .
" we believe our role is to observe the election and to produce a report that is as accurate as possible according to what we have observed and the ground , " he said .
" our intention is that we will observe those elections , but we will not risk our observers .
we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work . "
nevertheless , it is an issue certain to impact on the freeness and fairness of the run-off .
are you a teacher in zimbabwe ?
have you faced persecution for being a polling officer .
let us know your experiences using the form below .
name your e-mail address town & country comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend related to this story : forty years in zimbabwe 's schools -lrb- 19 apr 07 -pipe- africa -rrb- search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- africa -pipe- zimbabwe teachers face punishment british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages somali french arabic swahili great lakes hausa portuguese africa more page last updated at 04:57 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 05:57 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version zimbabwe teachers face punishment brian hungwe harare zimbabwean school teacher patrick -lrb- not his real name -rrb- is angry and in pain .
he has three broken ribs , a bandaged right arm and is barely able to sit up ; traces of blood can be seen in the drip attached to his stomach .
it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do patrick two weeks ago he was beaten with iron bars in the northern mashonaland central province .
he says the ruling zanu-pf party youths who attacked him wanted to know why his school , used as a polling station in the 29 march elections , recorded a high figure of opposition voters .
" i am no longer going back to teaching , " he says from a private clinic in the capital , harare .
" it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do . "
backbone many teachers acted as polling officers on election day - and have done at every election since independence in 1980 .
some schools have closed because of the political violence they are the backbone of the country 's electoral process .
but in rural areas , several schools have been shut down because of political violence that has been unleashed since the march polls .
teachers are being targeted , the progressive teachers union of zimbabwe -lrb- ptuz -rrb- says , and many are now fleeing .
more than 5,000 teachers have been beaten , about 600 hospitalised and 231 teachers ' houses burnt , the union says .
raymond majongwe , ptuz secretary general , says the number of teachers being attacked is growing by the day and as a result the quality of education is suffering .
" the same teachers that are being pushed around and being beaten are no longer going to be giving their best , " he said .
i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit ptuz 's raymond majongwe " they will be looking over their shoulder every other time to see who is present , who is coming and who is advancing , " he said , describing their fear .
zimbabwe 's education system , once the envy of the region , has recorded its " worst year " , he said .
" i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit , " he said .
for the zimbabwe election commission , the massive displacement of teachers could prove a headache ahead of the planned presidential run-off on 27 june .
polling officers from different sectors will need to be recruited and trained .
difficult and it has not just been teachers under attack .
independent election observers have not been spared either .
we will not risk our observers we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work zesn chairman noel kutukwa the zimbabwe election support network -lrb- zesn -rrb- had more than 8,000 observers across the country during the march vote .
it says hundreds of them are now being persecuted ahead of the run-off .
and despite the courage to go on , it is fast losing members willing to take part because of the continued crackdown .
zesn admits monitoring the run-off will be an extremely difficult task .
but zesn chairman noel kutukwa is not giving up .
" we believe our role is to observe the election and to produce a report that is as accurate as possible according to what we have observed and the ground , " he said .
" our intention is that we will observe those elections , but we will not risk our observers .
we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work . "
nevertheless , it is an issue certain to impact on the freeness and fairness of the run-off .
are you a teacher in zimbabwe ?
have you faced persecution for being a polling officer .
let us know your experiences using the form below .
name your e-mail address town & country comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
zimbabwe - new era ?
latest news court acquits roy bennett mugabe call for end to violence state of collapse mugabe 's decades thirty years of zimbabwe in sounds and images viewpoint : house of stone at 30 thirty years of zimbabwe in graphs new farmers defend their gains whites fear indigenisation bill forgotten children the polarised lives of rich and poor land audit blocked exodus continues alarm at growing child sex abuse media ' still not free ' ready to forgive ?
profiles the mujurus roy bennett tendai biti robert mugabe m tsvangirai lovemore moyo see also forty years in zimbabwe 's schools 19 apr 07 -pipe- africa top africa stories nigeria state oil firm ' insolvent ' france to help africa veterans churches call for sudan to split most popular stories now shared read watched / listened polypill ' could become a reality ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened renault warns of threat to assets hackers uncover secret ps3 keys starbucks unveils revamped logo cost cuts ' led to bp oil spill ' hogan to sue australia government microsoft uses mobile phone chips passengers thwart turkish hijack hungary plunges into eu hot water haiti warned over rape in camps china stealth plane ' years away ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened air passengers thwart hijack attempt swedes ' want king to abdicate ' will this ship revolutionise the skies ?
one-minute world news crabs killed by weather washed up more dead birds fall from us sky windows uses mobile phone chips tablet ' wars ' at electronics show chemical plant fire in holland increased demand for land rovers most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 206,829 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- africa -pipe- zimbabwe teachers face punishment accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages somali french arabic swahili great lakes hausa portuguese africa more page last updated at 04:57 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 05:57 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version zimbabwe teachers face punishment brian hungwe harare zimbabwean school teacher patrick -lrb- not his real name -rrb- is angry and in pain .
he has three broken ribs , a bandaged right arm and is barely able to sit up ; traces of blood can be seen in the drip attached to his stomach .
it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do patrick two weeks ago he was beaten with iron bars in the northern mashonaland central province .
he says the ruling zanu-pf party youths who attacked him wanted to know why his school , used as a polling station in the 29 march elections , recorded a high figure of opposition voters .
" i am no longer going back to teaching , " he says from a private clinic in the capital , harare .
" it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do . "
backbone many teachers acted as polling officers on election day - and have done at every election since independence in 1980 .
some schools have closed because of the political violence they are the backbone of the country 's electoral process .
but in rural areas , several schools have been shut down because of political violence that has been unleashed since the march polls .
teachers are being targeted , the progressive teachers union of zimbabwe -lrb- ptuz -rrb- says , and many are now fleeing .
more than 5,000 teachers have been beaten , about 600 hospitalised and 231 teachers ' houses burnt , the union says .
raymond majongwe , ptuz secretary general , says the number of teachers being attacked is growing by the day and as a result the quality of education is suffering .
" the same teachers that are being pushed around and being beaten are no longer going to be giving their best , " he said .
i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit ptuz 's raymond majongwe " they will be looking over their shoulder every other time to see who is present , who is coming and who is advancing , " he said , describing their fear .
zimbabwe 's education system , once the envy of the region , has recorded its " worst year " , he said .
" i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit , " he said .
for the zimbabwe election commission , the massive displacement of teachers could prove a headache ahead of the planned presidential run-off on 27 june .
polling officers from different sectors will need to be recruited and trained .
difficult and it has not just been teachers under attack .
independent election observers have not been spared either .
we will not risk our observers we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work zesn chairman noel kutukwa the zimbabwe election support network -lrb- zesn -rrb- had more than 8,000 observers across the country during the march vote .
it says hundreds of them are now being persecuted ahead of the run-off .
and despite the courage to go on , it is fast losing members willing to take part because of the continued crackdown .
zesn admits monitoring the run-off will be an extremely difficult task .
but zesn chairman noel kutukwa is not giving up .
" we believe our role is to observe the election and to produce a report that is as accurate as possible according to what we have observed and the ground , " he said .
" our intention is that we will observe those elections , but we will not risk our observers .
we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work . "
nevertheless , it is an issue certain to impact on the freeness and fairness of the run-off .
are you a teacher in zimbabwe ?
have you faced persecution for being a polling officer .
let us know your experiences using the form below .
name your e-mail address town & country comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
zimbabwe - new era ?
latest news defiant mugabe rallies zanu-pf zimbabwe predicts economic upturn state of collapse raring to go ?
mugabe rallies a party riven by doubts and factions exodus continues alarm at growing child sex abuse media ' still not free ' student views on future harare diary : ' almost normal ' tentative thaw in eu ties ready to forgive ?
in pictures : impoverished pensioners zimbabwe farmer : ' i 'm not giving up ' background meeting ' uncle bob ' land question unresolved zimbabwe deal : key points q & a : zimbabwe crisis in video ' rude ' zimbabwe turns away un 's torture investigator profiles the mujurus roy bennett tendai biti robert mugabe m tsvangirai lovemore moyo see also forty years in zimbabwe 's schools 19 apr 07 -pipe- africa top africa stories un action shameful , says eritrea niger vows to arrest dissidents archbishop attacks anti-gay bill most popular stories now shared read watched / listened scientists ' decode ' memory making two more catholic bishops resign the queen 's christmas message taliban video ' shows us soldier ' where not to go in a boat most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened pope gives address after assault bin laden 's daughter ' is in iran ' taliban video shows us soldier two more catholic bishops resign woman knocks pope down at mass central us under blizzard alerts japan to stop blossom forecasts hp camera ' ca n't see ' black faces having a laugh in india in pictures : us midwest snowstorms most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened the moment the pope was knocked down the queen 's christmas message taliban video ' shows us soldier ' footage of pope attack woman in 2008 stand-up comedy club opens in india pope gives address after assault one-minute world news royal family gathers at sandringham how bees perform perfect landing royals gather at sandringham most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis new hope in aceh five years of recovery from deadly tsunami having a laugh the pitfalls of making comedy work in india in pictures snowstorms bring chaos for millions in us midwest most popular now most popular now -pipe- 37,029 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- africa -pipe- zimbabwe teachers face punishment accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages somali french arabic swahili great lakes hausa portuguese africa more page last updated at 04:57 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 05:57 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version zimbabwe teachers face punishment brian hungwe harare zimbabwean school teacher patrick -lrb- not his real name -rrb- is angry and in pain .
he has three broken ribs , a bandaged right arm and is barely able to sit up ; traces of blood can be seen in the drip attached to his stomach .
it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do patrick two weeks ago he was beaten with iron bars in the northern mashonaland central province .
he says the ruling zanu-pf party youths who attacked him wanted to know why his school , used as a polling station in the 29 march elections , recorded a high figure of opposition voters .
" i am no longer going back to teaching , " he says from a private clinic in the capital , harare .
" it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do . "
backbone many teachers acted as polling officers on election day - and have done at every election since independence in 1980 .
some schools have closed because of the political violence they are the backbone of the country 's electoral process .
but in rural areas , several schools have been shut down because of political violence that has been unleashed since the march polls .
teachers are being targeted , the progressive teachers union of zimbabwe -lrb- ptuz -rrb- says , and many are now fleeing .
more than 5,000 teachers have been beaten , about 600 hospitalised and 231 teachers ' houses burnt , the union says .
raymond majongwe , ptuz secretary general , says the number of teachers being attacked is growing by the day and as a result the quality of education is suffering .
" the same teachers that are being pushed around and being beaten are no longer going to be giving their best , " he said .
i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit ptuz 's raymond majongwe " they will be looking over their shoulder every other time to see who is present , who is coming and who is advancing , " he said , describing their fear .
zimbabwe 's education system , once the envy of the region , has recorded its " worst year " , he said .
" i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit , " he said .
for the zimbabwe election commission , the massive displacement of teachers could prove a headache ahead of the planned presidential run-off on 27 june .
polling officers from different sectors will need to be recruited and trained .
difficult and it has not just been teachers under attack .
independent election observers have not been spared either .
we will not risk our observers we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work zesn chairman noel kutukwa the zimbabwe election support network -lrb- zesn -rrb- had more than 8,000 observers across the country during the march vote .
it says hundreds of them are now being persecuted ahead of the run-off .
and despite the courage to go on , it is fast losing members willing to take part because of the continued crackdown .
zesn admits monitoring the run-off will be an extremely difficult task .
but zesn chairman noel kutukwa is not giving up .
" we believe our role is to observe the election and to produce a report that is as accurate as possible according to what we have observed and the ground , " he said .
" our intention is that we will observe those elections , but we will not risk our observers .
we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work . "
nevertheless , it is an issue certain to impact on the freeness and fairness of the run-off .
are you a teacher in zimbabwe ?
have you faced persecution for being a polling officer .
let us know your experiences using the form below .
name your e-mail address town & country comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
zimbabwe - new era ?
latest news zimbabwe mine abuses ' continue ' defiant mugabe rallies zanu-pf state of collapse raring to go ?
mugabe rallies a party riven by doubts and factions exodus continues alarm at growing child sex abuse media ' still not free ' student views on future harare diary : ' almost normal ' tentative thaw in eu ties ready to forgive ?
in pictures : impoverished pensioners zimbabwe farmer : ' i 'm not giving up ' background meeting ' uncle bob ' land question unresolved zimbabwe deal : key points q & a : zimbabwe crisis in video ' rude ' zimbabwe turns away un 's torture investigator profiles the mujurus roy bennett tendai biti robert mugabe m tsvangirai lovemore moyo see also forty years in zimbabwe 's schools 19 apr 07 -pipe- africa top africa stories icc rejects darfur rebel charges migrants saved from gulf of aden africa malaria drugs ' low-grade ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened smartphone keys get quantum trick us soldier ' waterboards ' daughter chavez orders buildings ' seizure fertile forties pregnancy warning extraordinary owl preys on sloth most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened us soldier ' waterboards ' daughter smartphone keys get quantum trick toyota makes mass recall of prius haitian ' lasts 27 days in rubble ' pitt and jolie sue sunday paper brain injury linked to gambling ice ' probable cause ' of ba crash fertile forties pregnancy warning ukraine awaits tymoshenko 's move jackson medic denies manslaughter most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened chavez orders buildings ' seizure street where gadgets go haywire the row over the ' mcitaly ' one-minute world news greece fails to kick the habit ' snowmageddon ' in eastern us history of the war in sri lanka did a spaceman land in westminster ?
endeavour makes final night launch haiti earthquake survivor ' rescued ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis biswas on india why does n't bollywood take a stand ?
open plan why surprise plays little part in latest afghan operation poll quandary will ukraine pm yulia tymoshenko challenge outcome ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 31,357 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- africa -pipe- zimbabwe teachers face punishment accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages somali french arabic swahili great lakes hausa portuguese africa more page last updated at 04:57 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 05:57 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version zimbabwe teachers face punishment brian hungwe harare zimbabwean school teacher patrick -lrb- not his real name -rrb- is angry and in pain .
he has three broken ribs , a bandaged right arm and is barely able to sit up ; traces of blood can be seen in the drip attached to his stomach .
it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do patrick two weeks ago he was beaten with iron bars in the northern mashonaland central province .
he says the ruling zanu-pf party youths who attacked him wanted to know why his school , used as a polling station in the 29 march elections , recorded a high figure of opposition voters .
" i am no longer going back to teaching , " he says from a private clinic in the capital , harare .
" it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do . "
backbone many teachers acted as polling officers on election day - and have done at every election since independence in 1980 .
some schools have closed because of the political violence they are the backbone of the country 's electoral process .
but in rural areas , several schools have been shut down because of political violence that has been unleashed since the march polls .
teachers are being targeted , the progressive teachers union of zimbabwe -lrb- ptuz -rrb- says , and many are now fleeing .
more than 5,000 teachers have been beaten , about 600 hospitalised and 231 teachers ' houses burnt , the union says .
raymond majongwe , ptuz secretary general , says the number of teachers being attacked is growing by the day and as a result the quality of education is suffering .
" the same teachers that are being pushed around and being beaten are no longer going to be giving their best , " he said .
i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit ptuz 's raymond majongwe " they will be looking over their shoulder every other time to see who is present , who is coming and who is advancing , " he said , describing their fear .
zimbabwe 's education system , once the envy of the region , has recorded its " worst year " , he said .
" i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit , " he said .
for the zimbabwe election commission , the massive displacement of teachers could prove a headache ahead of the planned presidential run-off on 27 june .
polling officers from different sectors will need to be recruited and trained .
difficult and it has not just been teachers under attack .
independent election observers have not been spared either .
we will not risk our observers we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work zesn chairman noel kutukwa the zimbabwe election support network -lrb- zesn -rrb- had more than 8,000 observers across the country during the march vote .
it says hundreds of them are now being persecuted ahead of the run-off .
and despite the courage to go on , it is fast losing members willing to take part because of the continued crackdown .
zesn admits monitoring the run-off will be an extremely difficult task .
but zesn chairman noel kutukwa is not giving up .
" we believe our role is to observe the election and to produce a report that is as accurate as possible according to what we have observed and the ground , " he said .
" our intention is that we will observe those elections , but we will not risk our observers .
we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work . "
nevertheless , it is an issue certain to impact on the freeness and fairness of the run-off .
are you a teacher in zimbabwe ?
have you faced persecution for being a polling officer .
let us know your experiences using the form below .
name your e-mail address town & country comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
zimbabwe - new era ?
latest news zimbabwe 's bennett trial delayed zimbabwe escapes diamond sale ban state of collapse child victims sex abuse of boys and girls rises amid zimbabwe crisis media ' still not free ' student views on future harare diary : ' almost normal ' tentative thaw in eu ties eyewitness : school of fear ready to forgive ?
cautious optimism returns in pictures : impoverished pensioners zimbabwe farmer : ' i 'm not giving up ' background meeting ' uncle bob ' land question unresolved zimbabwe deal : key points q & a : zimbabwe crisis in video ' rude ' zimbabwe turns away un 's torture investigator profiles the mujurus roy bennett tendai biti robert mugabe m tsvangirai lovemore moyo see also forty years in zimbabwe 's schools 19 apr 07 -pipe- africa top africa stories congo gold ' still funding ' rebels pirates seize n korea tanker crew cameroon police jobs ' pressure ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened meditation ' eases heart disease ' ' female viagra ' discovery claim plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' china and us ' to work together ' aer lingus clips its wings most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' female viagra ' discovery claim pirates seize n korea tanker crew war-torn nations ' most corrupt ' australia put on top fire alert age of cyber warfare is ' dawning ' china and us ' to work together ' microsoft co-founder has cancer full steam ahead for us railways two kite surfers jump over pier prague marks velvet revolution most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news mexico 's most dangerous city army 's new night vision equipment conjoined twins op ' successful ' 1989 : czechoslovakia leaders resign obama 's official welcome to china nasa 's atlantis shuttle blasts off us and china agree to ' work together ' us and china agree to ' work together ' fox hunting ban five years on most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis centre stage how the velvet revolution was led from a theatre full steam ahead fresh signs of life for the us railroad industry tech solutions ?
how technology could help us limit climate change most popular now most popular now -pipe- 70,314 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- africa -pipe- zimbabwe teachers face punishment british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages somali french arabic swahili great lakes hausa portuguese africa more page last updated at 04:57 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 05:57 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version zimbabwe teachers face punishment brian hungwe harare zimbabwean school teacher patrick -lrb- not his real name -rrb- is angry and in pain .
he has three broken ribs , a bandaged right arm and is barely able to sit up ; traces of blood can be seen in the drip attached to his stomach .
it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do patrick two weeks ago he was beaten with iron bars in the northern mashonaland central province .
he says the ruling zanu-pf party youths who attacked him wanted to know why his school , used as a polling station in the 29 march elections , recorded a high figure of opposition voters .
" i am no longer going back to teaching , " he says from a private clinic in the capital , harare .
" it 's the end of my career as a teacher .
i 'm going to find something else to do . "
backbone many teachers acted as polling officers on election day - and have done at every election since independence in 1980 .
some schools have closed because of the political violence they are the backbone of the country 's electoral process .
but in rural areas , several schools have been shut down because of political violence that has been unleashed since the march polls .
teachers are being targeted , the progressive teachers union of zimbabwe -lrb- ptuz -rrb- says , and many are now fleeing .
more than 5,000 teachers have been beaten , about 600 hospitalised and 231 teachers ' houses burnt , the union says .
raymond majongwe , ptuz secretary general , says the number of teachers being attacked is growing by the day and as a result the quality of education is suffering .
" the same teachers that are being pushed around and being beaten are no longer going to be giving their best , " he said .
i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit ptuz 's raymond majongwe " they will be looking over their shoulder every other time to see who is present , who is coming and who is advancing , " he said , describing their fear .
zimbabwe 's education system , once the envy of the region , has recorded its " worst year " , he said .
" i think if education could be described as being in hospital , it would be in an intensive care unit , " he said .
for the zimbabwe election commission , the massive displacement of teachers could prove a headache ahead of the planned presidential run-off on 27 june .
polling officers from different sectors will need to be recruited and trained .
difficult and it has not just been teachers under attack .
independent election observers have not been spared either .
we will not risk our observers we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work zesn chairman noel kutukwa the zimbabwe election support network -lrb- zesn -rrb- had more than 8,000 observers across the country during the march vote .
it says hundreds of them are now being persecuted ahead of the run-off .
and despite the courage to go on , it is fast losing members willing to take part because of the continued crackdown .
zesn admits monitoring the run-off will be an extremely difficult task .
but zesn chairman noel kutukwa is not giving up .
" we believe our role is to observe the election and to produce a report that is as accurate as possible according to what we have observed and the ground , " he said .
" our intention is that we will observe those elections , but we will not risk our observers .
we will have to come up with different strategies of doing the same work . "
nevertheless , it is an issue certain to impact on the freeness and fairness of the run-off .
are you a teacher in zimbabwe ?
have you faced persecution for being a polling officer .
let us know your experiences using the form below .
name your e-mail address town & country comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
zimbabwe - new era ?
latest news court acquits roy bennett mugabe call for end to violence state of collapse mugabe 's decades thirty years of zimbabwe in sounds and images viewpoint : house of stone at 30 thirty years of zimbabwe in graphs new farmers defend their gains whites fear indigenisation bill forgotten children the polarised lives of rich and poor land audit blocked exodus continues alarm at growing child sex abuse media ' still not free ' ready to forgive ?
profiles the mujurus roy bennett tendai biti robert mugabe m tsvangirai lovemore moyo see also forty years in zimbabwe 's schools 19 apr 07 -pipe- africa top africa stories nigeria state oil firm ' insolvent ' france to help africa veterans churches call for sudan to split most popular stories now shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' a glimpse of life inside castro 's revolutionary hideout most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' huge ice sheet breaks from greenland glacier adultery case woman attacks iran ' medics ' killed in afghanistan a glimpse of life inside castro 's revolutionary hideout shot uk medical worker identified turkish man accused of wife beating in nz ' was dancing ' oxford woman shown her own rape on mobile phone pakistan on flooding ' red alert ' muslim group minhaj ul-quran runs ' anti-terrorism ' camp most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened on board the flight that bombed hiroshima flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep five minutes with : hanif kureishi thousands slash ' pirate ' record monty python team caught in early home movie police ' smash pensioner 's car ' western ' threat ' to african health advice castro returning to public life ' a catastrophe , no overstatement ' president zardari interviewed most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 44,629 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories husband held in severed hand case oyster roll-out ' early next year ' ipcc complaint over nickell death most popular stories now shared read watched / listened earth ' heading for 6c ' of warming meditation ' eases heart disease ' tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' ' ex-nazi ' charged with 58 murders man killed wife ' during a dream ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened men survive weeks lost in pacific man killed wife ' during a dream ' earth ' heading for 6c ' of warming israeli settlement plan denounced french ' school shooting foiled ' guilty plea in infamous us kidnap meteor shower provides sky show ' ex-nazi ' charged with 58 murders afghans ' blame poverty for war ' tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news pakistan ' captures taliban bases ' norah jones on new album sound antarctic ice traps cruise ship mexico 's most dangerous city commuter cat is star of bus route where do all the leaves go ?
us raps israeli settlement plan somalia still top of corruption list mexico battles drugs and corruption most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis tigers claw back ?
what now for tamil rebel riches and support worldwide ?
in pictures prague marks 20th anniversary of the ' velvet revolution ' earth watch climate treaty explores the meaning of ' binding ' most popular now most popular now -pipe- 19,257 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened going to harvard from your own bedroom early-warning diabetes test hope libya 's rivals : the military balance staff push tablet computers into the workplace most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened medvedev-putin dispute on libya gaddafi ' not targeted ' by strikes live : libya crisis japan will overcome crisis - iaea us sorry for afghan corpse photos gaddafi son ' gave order to shoot ' china blamed for gmail disruption thousands ' join ivory coast army ' hobbit filming finally under way yemeni general backs opposition most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened new libya violence evidence emerges gaddafi building damaged by missile gaddafi defiant after air raids woman tricked into the sex industry the moment tsunami hit miyako city tsunami floodgate that did n't work new footage : japan tsunami at sea footage of moment tsunami hit japan nuclear iran ' will help terrorists ' ' tanks and snipers ' all around misrata most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 136,043 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened south korea sex scandal diplomats to be disciplined anti-nuclear protests in japan botanic gardens ' invasives ' role most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libya : explosions shake tripoli radioactive levels rise by plant defecating dog sparks us shootout the muammar gaddafi story us beauty queen wins ' fat ' case the bizarre world of time zones libyan leader ' arming volunteers ' us priests in sex abuse pay-out harper canadian government falls how secure is syria 's president ?
most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened rebels battle to control ajdabiya african union ' ignored ' over libya crisis about time : the science of time tens of thousands protest in yemen at the scene of a libya missile strike ' propaganda war ' stepped up in libya raf typhoon jets head to libya life after the harry potter films india debates its nuclear future new storage concepts for portable tech most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 21,700 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories special pcs in train death probe man in court over mother 's murder family stabbing witness appeal most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nairobi bikers improve their own slum webscape most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened diana dors sports car to be sold eight shot , four dead outside buffalo restaurant in us obama backs ' ground zero mosque ' rise of the mamils -lrb- middle-aged men in lycra -rrb- passengers hurt as coaches crash sun 's ' quiet period ' explained children hurt in lurgan explosion lebanon opens fund to equip army pakistan says 20m hit by floods iraqi asylum seekers struggle to survive in sweden most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened cctv of ' air steward 's emergency exit ' how to get a grip on your inbox life on the edge : korogocho 's biker boys obama defends new york mosque plan nhs pfi costs ' are horrendous ' ' a disaster of epic proportions ' one-minute world news pakistan says 20m hit by floods five hundred baby crocs hatch ranger narrowly escapes crocodile most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 47,143 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories mother and daughter found killed met officers face assault charges trio abseil big ben for repairs most popular stories now shared read watched / listened turkey country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened chinese ' infant breasts ' inquiry woman banned from all sainsbury 's meteor spectacle ' set to dazzle ' moscow ' hiding heatstroke cases ' after death rate jumps airports staff vote for strikes israeli ' agent ' sent to germany india sets deadline on blackberry brazil to record ufo sightings man held over us serial stabbings pakistani president in flood zone most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news women dice with death on m6 one-minute world news unnamed page woman starts fight over chicken nuggets unnamed page what is the problem with flying the eu flag in the uk ?
full flash video on phones unnamed page iran stoning woman ' confesses ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 63,029 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories luxury jewellery stolen in raid collapsed sewer closes ring-road fallen remembered on vj day most popular stories now shared read watched / listened living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars pow recalls hiroshima bomb blast most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened craigslist ' killer ' found dead in boston jail diana dors sports car fetches $ 3m at auction ban shocked by pakistan flooding spectators killed at us car race ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam living in fear of mexico 's worsening drugs wars man , 19 , raped in county tyrone bomb hoax hits lourdes pilgrims red cap killing charges dropped nation remembers fallen on vj day most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened president barack obama takes a dip in gulf of mexico spectators killed at us car race bee mystery in italy un chief 's sorrow at pakistan crisis carmaker morgan unveils eva gt one-minute world news singer wyclef 's haiti presidential bid un pledges pakistan aid ethiopia 's ancient rock churches fantasy epic to be filmed in belfast most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 52,886 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories ' runaway train ' on london tube london flooding damage assessed feltz fined for noisy house party most popular stories now shared read watched / listened halal holidays in the sun seeing the teenager in the brain most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened teenage girl raped in city centre ' runaway train ' on london tube germany in ' record ' 2.2 % growth afghan army offensive ' ambushed ' swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty peru battles killer vampire bats meteors still set for ' good show ' iran nuclear plant start date set are picky eaters ' genes to blame ?
sri lanka ex-army chief convicted most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened meteor shower lights up the sky plane rolls into sea in brazil europe 's changing holiday habits devastating power of china floods women dice with death on m6 one-minute world news picky eater : ' pasta is like live worms ' woman starts fight over chicken nuggets pakistan 's floods from the air uk teenager finds fame in japan most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 89,957 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories controversial brent councillor goes solo age limit restricts 2012 helpers error leads to new ballot papers most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nude volunteers pose for art shoot pope to overhaul abuse-hit order fat americans a ' security threat ' nigerian denies child bride claim roller coaster ear damage warning most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' weather hampers us oil clean-up hundreds strip off in lowry shoot us protests over immigration law fat americans a ' security threat ' assam tea estate goes organic protesters confront greek police lebanon 's amnesia for civil war missing escort girl claims cast cloud over french football last few days ' crucial ' - brown most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened nude volunteers pose for art shoot ' spill threatens our way of life ' greek riot police clash with protesters naked crowd gathers for climate change one-minute world news nudes pose at irish castle five minutes with : amy williams arizona immigration law protests oil spill sparks new drilling ban no food or water for 70 years ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis something amiss ?
lebanon ' amnesia ' over its civil war disappeared phew ! to brew how cow dung and rotting meat make top cuppa in india elusive peace fearful times as militants regroup in swat valley most popular now most popular now -pipe- 39,900 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who election 2010 formula 1 a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories firefighters warned over shifts lamplugh police end body search rum bottle cocaine killer jailed most popular stories now shared read watched / listened russia country profile philippines country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened man grows pea plant inside lung relic of ' original earth ' exposed dying girl photographs criticised lindsay lohan judge steps aside pakistan flood desperation grows russia ' has missiles ' in abkhazia misspelt road signs : your photos bin laden chef handed jail term speedy solution to rubik 's cube ' fake fishermen ' angle for bp pay most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened inside obama 's favourite burger joint saudi women photograph their world one-minute world news women dice with death on m6 us and russia in hijack plane exercise unnamed page woman starts fight over chicken nuggets an uncertain future for iraq 's sunni militia ' jerkin ' street dance sweeps the us britain 's ' oldest house ' discovered most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 66,200 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories special pcs in train death probe man in court over mother 's murder family stabbing witness appeal most popular stories now shared read watched / listened taliban targets : women , children , foreigners iraqi asylum seekers struggle to survive in sweden most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened deadly accident at us motor race ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam taliban targets : women , children , foreigners lebanon ' kills militant leader ' china mourns gansu landslide dead double jeopardy will be scrapped russia ban on grain export begins celebrations as princess turns 60 in pictures : zurich 's dance parade prince to lead tributes on vj day most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened new york ' puckers up for peace ' ethiopia 's religious heritage of underground churches how to get a grip on your inbox one-minute world news archive : princess anne 's first public appearance rescues amid china flood chaos schoolboy builds business empire corden and walliams kiss for charity mumbai tackles malaria for economic health the greenest music festival ever ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 34,343 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories further snow forecast for london residents flee building site fire man is fatally shot outside flats most popular stories now shared read watched / listened is this the world 's smartest dog ? 7 questions on snow snow disrupts schools and travel err on a g-spot pi calculated to ' record number ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat err on a g-spot ex-ministers demand brown ballot snow brings disruption in europe pornographic videos flood youtube obama given intelligence pledge pi calculated to ' record number ' snow disrupts schools and travel ' flaws ' in key lockerbie evidence in pictures : bird 's nest winter wonderland most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat is this the world 's smartest dog ?
us state reviews shackling laws swiss avalanche death toll rises porn videos floods youtube runaway pig sparks road chase argentine whales attacked by seagulls one-minute world news mass whale deaths in new zealand blizzards sweep across the uk most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis guantanamo blues problems mount for us president 's plans to close camp in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland in the zone are women the big losers in the quest to find the g-spot ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 104,829 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened scan uncovers 40 smuggled snakes most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ivorian fighters head to capital gaddafi forces push rebels back syrians await president 's address live : libya and mid-east crisis japan to scrap stricken reactors how far can a 100-word vocabulary get you ?
royal weddings of the past berlusconi visits migrant island obama sets out energy future the korean american success story most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news balls : most annoying man in politics ?
' the mother of all epic battles ' security tight at cricket world cup olga kotelko : the 91-year-old track star reagan ' a fetish object for the far right ' the man who experienced two tsunamis a good time to visit the middle east ?
old masters re-imagined with technology libya : air strikes will continue , says us most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 93,171 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version london ' loses ' thousands of trees the group wants tougher measures to stop trees being cut down campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
bbc london sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also mayor scraps paper for trees plan 13 may 08 -pipe- london work to boost sparrow population 02 may 08 -pipe- london most expensive london tree found 22 apr 08 -pipe- london johnson pledges 10,000 new trees 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics take cover by saving urban trees 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories damilola killer freed from jail man guilty over van roll deaths burst water main in west london most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened russian ' miracle ' crash landing cameron to miss pm 's questions morgan to replace host larry king ex-rangers player in cancer fight beware the ' do n't know ' brigade church defiant over koran stunt european police in pirate raids bp due to publish oil leak report castro criticises iranian leader sect members escape nigeria jail most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened passengers survive russia crash landing good and bad dancing put to test one-minute world news one-minute world news jolie praise for pakistan military secrets of good dancing uncovered tablet pc market becoming crowded pressure mounts against koran burning david cameron on father 's influence belgian pm on eurozone integration most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 69,857 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links battle of britain pakistan floods full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- london ' loses ' thousands of trees bbc news / london graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 05:08 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:08 uk london ' loses ' thousands of trees campaigners have called for better protection for trees after claiming 9,000 were lost in london last year .
a third of those trees were large , mature and in streets , according to the charity trees for cities .
despite recent pledges from mayor boris johnson to plant 10,000 new trees in the city 's most deprived areas , the group said this would not be enough .
old trees should be given the same level of protection as historic buildings , the organisation claimed .
" we 'd like to see much protection of bigger trees , especially the big mature trees , " said chief executive graham simmonds . "
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance " graham simmonds chief executive , trees for cities " i think what we should be doing is thinking about historic trees as we do about historic buildings , " he added .
" we value architecture and we should value trees in the same way .
we would n't just knock down a building that has historical significance , and we should do the same with trees . "
about 320 mature woodlands across south-east england are also under threat owing to the development of airports , roads and buildings , according to the woodlands trust the charity wants tougher legislation to stop the cutting down of woods in the area .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : mayor scraps paper for trees plan -lrb- 13 may 08 -pipe- london -rrb- work to boost sparrow population -lrb- 02 may 08 -pipe- london -rrb- most expensive london tree found -lrb- 22 apr 08 -pipe- london -rrb- johnson pledges 10,000 new trees -lrb- 26 mar 08 -pipe- uk politics -rrb- take cover by saving urban trees -lrb- 04 mar 08 -pipe- science / nature -rrb- related internet links mayor of london trees for cities the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence bbc news / wales politics graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 05:52 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:52 uk ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence a former senior police officer has been appointed to drive forward protection for nhs staff in wales from violence .
david francis , a former south wales deputy chief constable , will act as a " champion " to help implement such measures as police patrols .
there will also be more cctv and staff training after a report by the assembly government made the recommendations , which are being costed .
unions praised the assembly government for accepting the recommendations .
the new role for mr francis , who is the chair of cwm taf nhs trust , will see him lead on the development of a publicity strategy to ensure nhs staff know what is being done to address the issue , said health minister edwina hart .
more than 20 nhs staff in wales complain of physical or mental abuse in a typical day .
the report , which was prepared by a group consisting of representatives from healthcare unions , also recommended that nhs trusts ensure they work with the crown prosecution service to ensure the effective prosecution of violent people . "
violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services " richard jones , royal college of nursing wales employers must encourage and support victims of attacks to act as witnesses in prosecutions , said the report .
staff should also have free access to solicitors to pursue prosecutions and the recovery of additional costs incurred resulting from violent acts at work , it said .
ms hart said work was underway on costing and prioritising the recommendations .
" when this work has been done we will publish a detailed plan which will show staff exactly what actions we will be taking over the next few years to tackle violence and aggression against nhs staff , " she said .
mr francis has been appointed the all-wales violence and aggression champion because of his experience in tackling crime and anti-social behaviour , she said .
" i believe he has the right skills from both the police and health services to take forward these extremely important recommendations to make a real difference for staff and patients , " added ms hart .
' strong message ' richard jones , interim director of royal college of nursing -lrb- rcn -rrb- wales , said : " violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services .
" we welcome this strong message from the welsh assembly government that it will no longer be tolerated and that staff will be protected and supported to pursue prosecutions . "
derek walker of the wales tuc said : " that the assembly government has fully accepted the recommendations is a testament to all the parties involved and trade unions will be continuing to work with key partners to see the measures outlined in the report are implemented effectively . "
the move comes two months after welsh ministers rejected the chance to extend a new law which would have given welsh nhs staff extra legal protection from violence and abuse .
at the time the assembly government said it was developing its own policies .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : nhs violence law rejected by ams -lrb- 28 mar 08 -pipe- wales -rrb- doctors ' not reporting assaults ' -lrb- 10 jan 08 -pipe- health -rrb- taskforce to tackle nhs violence -lrb- 03 oct 07 -pipe- wales -rrb- ' high violence ' against nhs staff -lrb- 22 mar 06 -pipe- wales -rrb- attacks on nurses ' on the rise ' -lrb- 28 feb 06 -pipe- health -rrb- violence on nhs staff ' costs £ 6m ' -lrb- 22 sep 05 -pipe- wales -rrb- police start patrols at city a & e -lrb- 24 aug 05 -pipe- south west wales -rrb- related internet links welsh assembly government royal college of nursing wales nhs wales the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:52 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:52 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence about 20 nhs staff complain of physical or mental abuse a day a former senior police officer has been appointed to drive forward protection for nhs staff in wales from violence .
david francis , a former south wales deputy chief constable , will act as a " champion " to help implement such measures as police patrols .
there will also be more cctv and staff training after a report by the assembly government made the recommendations , which are being costed .
unions praised the assembly government for accepting the recommendations .
the new role for mr francis , who is the chair of cwm taf nhs trust , will see him lead on the development of a publicity strategy to ensure nhs staff know what is being done to address the issue , said health minister edwina hart .
more than 20 nhs staff in wales complain of physical or mental abuse in a typical day .
the report , which was prepared by a group consisting of representatives from healthcare unions , also recommended that nhs trusts ensure they work with the crown prosecution service to ensure the effective prosecution of violent people .
violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services richard jones , royal college of nursing wales employers must encourage and support victims of attacks to act as witnesses in prosecutions , said the report .
staff should also have free access to solicitors to pursue prosecutions and the recovery of additional costs incurred resulting from violent acts at work , it said .
ms hart said work was underway on costing and prioritising the recommendations .
" when this work has been done we will publish a detailed plan which will show staff exactly what actions we will be taking over the next few years to tackle violence and aggression against nhs staff , " she said .
mr francis has been appointed the all-wales violence and aggression champion because of his experience in tackling crime and anti-social behaviour , she said .
" i believe he has the right skills from both the police and health services to take forward these extremely important recommendations to make a real difference for staff and patients , " added ms hart .
' strong message ' richard jones , interim director of royal college of nursing -lrb- rcn -rrb- wales , said : " violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services .
" we welcome this strong message from the welsh assembly government that it will no longer be tolerated and that staff will be protected and supported to pursue prosecutions . "
derek walker of the wales tuc said : " that the assembly government has fully accepted the recommendations is a testament to all the parties involved and trade unions will be continuing to work with key partners to see the measures outlined in the report are implemented effectively . "
the move comes two months after welsh ministers rejected the chance to extend a new law which would have given welsh nhs staff extra legal protection from violence and abuse .
at the time the assembly government said it was developing its own policies .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also nhs violence law rejected by ams 28 mar 08 -pipe- wales doctors ' not reporting assaults ' 10 jan 08 -pipe- health taskforce to tackle nhs violence 03 oct 07 -pipe- wales ' high violence ' against nhs staff 22 mar 06 -pipe- wales attacks on nurses ' on the rise ' 28 feb 06 -pipe- health violence on nhs staff ' costs £ 6m ' 22 sep 05 -pipe- wales police start patrols at city a & e 24 aug 05 -pipe- south west wales related internet links welsh assembly government royal college of nursing wales nhs wales the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened arizona shooting suspect charged how giffords survived the shot brazil 's chinese bikini problem undercover officer switches sides gates expresses chinese concern fury over doctor 's book on sex education for muslims obama hails south sudanese vote brazil warns of global trade war scores killed in iran plane crash virgin ' wo n't pay ' fees over snow most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened 911 tape of arizona shooting released close-up : azerbaijan 's oil baths kate middleton at friend 's wedding one-minute world news virtual mannequin for perfect fit one-minute world news visitors flock to china ' ice city ' obama : ' tragedy for entire country ' surgeon ' cautiously optimistic ' uk petrol prices reach record high most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 28,414 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:52 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:52 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence about 20 nhs staff complain of physical or mental abuse a day a former senior police officer has been appointed to drive forward protection for nhs staff in wales from violence .
david francis , a former south wales deputy chief constable , will act as a " champion " to help implement such measures as police patrols .
there will also be more cctv and staff training after a report by the assembly government made the recommendations , which are being costed .
unions praised the assembly government for accepting the recommendations .
the new role for mr francis , who is the chair of cwm taf nhs trust , will see him lead on the development of a publicity strategy to ensure nhs staff know what is being done to address the issue , said health minister edwina hart .
more than 20 nhs staff in wales complain of physical or mental abuse in a typical day .
the report , which was prepared by a group consisting of representatives from healthcare unions , also recommended that nhs trusts ensure they work with the crown prosecution service to ensure the effective prosecution of violent people .
violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services richard jones , royal college of nursing wales employers must encourage and support victims of attacks to act as witnesses in prosecutions , said the report .
staff should also have free access to solicitors to pursue prosecutions and the recovery of additional costs incurred resulting from violent acts at work , it said .
ms hart said work was underway on costing and prioritising the recommendations .
" when this work has been done we will publish a detailed plan which will show staff exactly what actions we will be taking over the next few years to tackle violence and aggression against nhs staff , " she said .
mr francis has been appointed the all-wales violence and aggression champion because of his experience in tackling crime and anti-social behaviour , she said .
" i believe he has the right skills from both the police and health services to take forward these extremely important recommendations to make a real difference for staff and patients , " added ms hart .
' strong message ' richard jones , interim director of royal college of nursing -lrb- rcn -rrb- wales , said : " violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services .
" we welcome this strong message from the welsh assembly government that it will no longer be tolerated and that staff will be protected and supported to pursue prosecutions . "
derek walker of the wales tuc said : " that the assembly government has fully accepted the recommendations is a testament to all the parties involved and trade unions will be continuing to work with key partners to see the measures outlined in the report are implemented effectively . "
the move comes two months after welsh ministers rejected the chance to extend a new law which would have given welsh nhs staff extra legal protection from violence and abuse .
at the time the assembly government said it was developing its own policies .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also nhs violence law rejected by ams 28 mar 08 -pipe- wales doctors ' not reporting assaults ' 10 jan 08 -pipe- health taskforce to tackle nhs violence 03 oct 07 -pipe- wales ' high violence ' against nhs staff 22 mar 06 -pipe- wales attacks on nurses ' on the rise ' 28 feb 06 -pipe- health violence on nhs staff ' costs £ 6m ' 22 sep 05 -pipe- wales police start patrols at city a & e 24 aug 05 -pipe- south west wales related internet links welsh assembly government royal college of nursing wales nhs wales the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened us oil spill executives get bonus ivory coast : as it happened saturday prostate screening has no benefit most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened french take over abidjan airport fukushima workers ' bodies found sheen live show bombs in detroit afghan koran protests spreading fighting resumes in libyan cities chinese artist barred from flight thousands are missing in mexico us oil spill executives get bonus us jets grounded after hole scare syria minister to form government most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news fighting rages in ivory coast what will airports of the future look like ?
my new life as a husky handler tsunami dog rescued at sea tsunami wave sweeps inland noisy trousers create jeans beat my son charlie sheen 's addiction tutu : ' end the carnage ' in libya hundreds killed in ivory coast town most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 92,057 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © 2011 the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:52 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:52 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence about 20 nhs staff complain of physical or mental abuse a day a former senior police officer has been appointed to drive forward protection for nhs staff in wales from violence .
david francis , a former south wales deputy chief constable , will act as a " champion " to help implement such measures as police patrols .
there will also be more cctv and staff training after a report by the assembly government made the recommendations , which are being costed .
unions praised the assembly government for accepting the recommendations .
the new role for mr francis , who is the chair of cwm taf nhs trust , will see him lead on the development of a publicity strategy to ensure nhs staff know what is being done to address the issue , said health minister edwina hart .
more than 20 nhs staff in wales complain of physical or mental abuse in a typical day .
the report , which was prepared by a group consisting of representatives from healthcare unions , also recommended that nhs trusts ensure they work with the crown prosecution service to ensure the effective prosecution of violent people .
violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services richard jones , royal college of nursing wales employers must encourage and support victims of attacks to act as witnesses in prosecutions , said the report .
staff should also have free access to solicitors to pursue prosecutions and the recovery of additional costs incurred resulting from violent acts at work , it said .
ms hart said work was underway on costing and prioritising the recommendations .
" when this work has been done we will publish a detailed plan which will show staff exactly what actions we will be taking over the next few years to tackle violence and aggression against nhs staff , " she said .
mr francis has been appointed the all-wales violence and aggression champion because of his experience in tackling crime and anti-social behaviour , she said .
" i believe he has the right skills from both the police and health services to take forward these extremely important recommendations to make a real difference for staff and patients , " added ms hart .
' strong message ' richard jones , interim director of royal college of nursing -lrb- rcn -rrb- wales , said : " violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services .
" we welcome this strong message from the welsh assembly government that it will no longer be tolerated and that staff will be protected and supported to pursue prosecutions . "
derek walker of the wales tuc said : " that the assembly government has fully accepted the recommendations is a testament to all the parties involved and trade unions will be continuing to work with key partners to see the measures outlined in the report are implemented effectively . "
the move comes two months after welsh ministers rejected the chance to extend a new law which would have given welsh nhs staff extra legal protection from violence and abuse .
at the time the assembly government said it was developing its own policies .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also nhs violence law rejected by ams 28 mar 08 -pipe- wales doctors ' not reporting assaults ' 10 jan 08 -pipe- health taskforce to tackle nhs violence 03 oct 07 -pipe- wales ' high violence ' against nhs staff 22 mar 06 -pipe- wales attacks on nurses ' on the rise ' 28 feb 06 -pipe- health violence on nhs staff ' costs £ 6m ' 22 sep 05 -pipe- wales police start patrols at city a & e 24 aug 05 -pipe- south west wales related internet links welsh assembly government royal college of nursing wales nhs wales the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened making content do the talking tools ' demand new american story ' japan inquiry into nuclear leak wikileaks ' helped arab uprisings ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan foes stalemate in key town live : libya crisis protests resume in syrian cities the bizarre world of time zones japan inquiry into nuclear leak tools ' demand new american story ' canada harper government toppled ' second victim ' missing for years why do men shout at women in the street ?
india pm makes world cup overture most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news african union ' ignored ' over libya crisis ' propaganda war ' stepped up in libya raf tornados strike libyan tank targets one-minute world news elizabeth taylor laid to rest syria : protests turn violent snow hampers japan aid effort helicopter tour of west bank and israel about time : the science of time most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 74,814 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:52 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:52 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence about 20 nhs staff complain of physical or mental abuse a day a former senior police officer has been appointed to drive forward protection for nhs staff in wales from violence .
david francis , a former south wales deputy chief constable , will act as a " champion " to help implement such measures as police patrols .
there will also be more cctv and staff training after a report by the assembly government made the recommendations , which are being costed .
unions praised the assembly government for accepting the recommendations .
the new role for mr francis , who is the chair of cwm taf nhs trust , will see him lead on the development of a publicity strategy to ensure nhs staff know what is being done to address the issue , said health minister edwina hart .
more than 20 nhs staff in wales complain of physical or mental abuse in a typical day .
the report , which was prepared by a group consisting of representatives from healthcare unions , also recommended that nhs trusts ensure they work with the crown prosecution service to ensure the effective prosecution of violent people .
violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services richard jones , royal college of nursing wales employers must encourage and support victims of attacks to act as witnesses in prosecutions , said the report .
staff should also have free access to solicitors to pursue prosecutions and the recovery of additional costs incurred resulting from violent acts at work , it said .
ms hart said work was underway on costing and prioritising the recommendations .
" when this work has been done we will publish a detailed plan which will show staff exactly what actions we will be taking over the next few years to tackle violence and aggression against nhs staff , " she said .
mr francis has been appointed the all-wales violence and aggression champion because of his experience in tackling crime and anti-social behaviour , she said .
" i believe he has the right skills from both the police and health services to take forward these extremely important recommendations to make a real difference for staff and patients , " added ms hart .
' strong message ' richard jones , interim director of royal college of nursing -lrb- rcn -rrb- wales , said : " violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services .
" we welcome this strong message from the welsh assembly government that it will no longer be tolerated and that staff will be protected and supported to pursue prosecutions . "
derek walker of the wales tuc said : " that the assembly government has fully accepted the recommendations is a testament to all the parties involved and trade unions will be continuing to work with key partners to see the measures outlined in the report are implemented effectively . "
the move comes two months after welsh ministers rejected the chance to extend a new law which would have given welsh nhs staff extra legal protection from violence and abuse .
at the time the assembly government said it was developing its own policies .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also nhs violence law rejected by ams 28 mar 08 -pipe- wales doctors ' not reporting assaults ' 10 jan 08 -pipe- health taskforce to tackle nhs violence 03 oct 07 -pipe- wales ' high violence ' against nhs staff 22 mar 06 -pipe- wales attacks on nurses ' on the rise ' 28 feb 06 -pipe- health violence on nhs staff ' costs £ 6m ' 22 sep 05 -pipe- wales police start patrols at city a & e 24 aug 05 -pipe- south west wales related internet links welsh assembly government royal college of nursing wales nhs wales the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man in hiding betrayed by pet dog topless tobogganing in germany palm oil products and the weekly shop frog reveals secret of monogamy dozens killed in peru bus crash most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened car bomb explodes at courthouse obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog odeon confirms wonderland boycott us ' closes in on google hackers ' first superman comic sold for $ 1m tv man gave up dead lover 's name guilty plea in new york bomb plot dozens killed in peru bus crash us-led advance in marjah ' steady ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver archery lesson for blindfolded prince israeli-born face deportation fresh madeira landslide warning burma 's kachin army set to fight one-minute world news israeli drone ' can reach iran ' close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music nato strike kills afghan civilians most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war strike damage european airlines struggle to polish up their images earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers most popular now most popular now -pipe- 34,329 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:52 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:52 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence about 20 nhs staff complain of physical or mental abuse a day a former senior police officer has been appointed to drive forward protection for nhs staff in wales from violence .
david francis , a former south wales deputy chief constable , will act as a " champion " to help implement such measures as police patrols .
there will also be more cctv and staff training after a report by the assembly government made the recommendations , which are being costed .
unions praised the assembly government for accepting the recommendations .
the new role for mr francis , who is the chair of cwm taf nhs trust , will see him lead on the development of a publicity strategy to ensure nhs staff know what is being done to address the issue , said health minister edwina hart .
more than 20 nhs staff in wales complain of physical or mental abuse in a typical day .
the report , which was prepared by a group consisting of representatives from healthcare unions , also recommended that nhs trusts ensure they work with the crown prosecution service to ensure the effective prosecution of violent people .
violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services richard jones , royal college of nursing wales employers must encourage and support victims of attacks to act as witnesses in prosecutions , said the report .
staff should also have free access to solicitors to pursue prosecutions and the recovery of additional costs incurred resulting from violent acts at work , it said .
ms hart said work was underway on costing and prioritising the recommendations .
" when this work has been done we will publish a detailed plan which will show staff exactly what actions we will be taking over the next few years to tackle violence and aggression against nhs staff , " she said .
mr francis has been appointed the all-wales violence and aggression champion because of his experience in tackling crime and anti-social behaviour , she said .
" i believe he has the right skills from both the police and health services to take forward these extremely important recommendations to make a real difference for staff and patients , " added ms hart .
' strong message ' richard jones , interim director of royal college of nursing -lrb- rcn -rrb- wales , said : " violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services .
" we welcome this strong message from the welsh assembly government that it will no longer be tolerated and that staff will be protected and supported to pursue prosecutions . "
derek walker of the wales tuc said : " that the assembly government has fully accepted the recommendations is a testament to all the parties involved and trade unions will be continuing to work with key partners to see the measures outlined in the report are implemented effectively . "
the move comes two months after welsh ministers rejected the chance to extend a new law which would have given welsh nhs staff extra legal protection from violence and abuse .
at the time the assembly government said it was developing its own policies .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also nhs violence law rejected by ams 28 mar 08 -pipe- wales doctors ' not reporting assaults ' 10 jan 08 -pipe- health taskforce to tackle nhs violence 03 oct 07 -pipe- wales ' high violence ' against nhs staff 22 mar 06 -pipe- wales attacks on nurses ' on the rise ' 28 feb 06 -pipe- health violence on nhs staff ' costs £ 6m ' 22 sep 05 -pipe- wales police start patrols at city a & e 24 aug 05 -pipe- south west wales related internet links welsh assembly government royal college of nursing wales nhs wales the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened cup of mint tea ' can kill pain ' hong kong flights toilet mystery should dads be in the delivery room ?
tesco to offer iphone in the uk rising sea levels : a tale of two cities most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened michelle obama image in race row hong kong flights toilet mystery swiss court grants polanski bail us pledges carbon emissions cuts rising sea levels : a tale of two cities day in pictures argentina veterans divided over falklands ' abuse ' case iraq war eve wmd doubt revealed cup of mint tea ' can kill pain ' toyota moves to cure pedal fault most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened pilot fails ' jet wing ' flight attempt 1920s disaster movie restored shock jock 's fury at bbc 's green guru life for a hong kong ' cage ' dweller one-minute world news the driverless taxi of the future coastal erosion threat to liberia saudi troops deployed as hajj begins winds fuel california wildfire fans welcome boyle to new york most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis waters rising two cities , in africa and europe , braced for higher seas day in pictures striking images from around the world falklands scars abuse charges divide argentine veterans most popular now most popular now -pipe- 63,886 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:52 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:52 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence about 20 nhs staff complain of physical or mental abuse a day a former senior police officer has been appointed to drive forward protection for nhs staff in wales from violence .
david francis , a former south wales deputy chief constable , will act as a " champion " to help implement such measures as police patrols .
there will also be more cctv and staff training after a report by the assembly government made the recommendations , which are being costed .
unions praised the assembly government for accepting the recommendations .
the new role for mr francis , who is the chair of cwm taf nhs trust , will see him lead on the development of a publicity strategy to ensure nhs staff know what is being done to address the issue , said health minister edwina hart .
more than 20 nhs staff in wales complain of physical or mental abuse in a typical day .
the report , which was prepared by a group consisting of representatives from healthcare unions , also recommended that nhs trusts ensure they work with the crown prosecution service to ensure the effective prosecution of violent people .
violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services richard jones , royal college of nursing wales employers must encourage and support victims of attacks to act as witnesses in prosecutions , said the report .
staff should also have free access to solicitors to pursue prosecutions and the recovery of additional costs incurred resulting from violent acts at work , it said .
ms hart said work was underway on costing and prioritising the recommendations .
" when this work has been done we will publish a detailed plan which will show staff exactly what actions we will be taking over the next few years to tackle violence and aggression against nhs staff , " she said .
mr francis has been appointed the all-wales violence and aggression champion because of his experience in tackling crime and anti-social behaviour , she said .
" i believe he has the right skills from both the police and health services to take forward these extremely important recommendations to make a real difference for staff and patients , " added ms hart .
' strong message ' richard jones , interim director of royal college of nursing -lrb- rcn -rrb- wales , said : " violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services .
" we welcome this strong message from the welsh assembly government that it will no longer be tolerated and that staff will be protected and supported to pursue prosecutions . "
derek walker of the wales tuc said : " that the assembly government has fully accepted the recommendations is a testament to all the parties involved and trade unions will be continuing to work with key partners to see the measures outlined in the report are implemented effectively . "
the move comes two months after welsh ministers rejected the chance to extend a new law which would have given welsh nhs staff extra legal protection from violence and abuse .
at the time the assembly government said it was developing its own policies .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also nhs violence law rejected by ams 28 mar 08 -pipe- wales doctors ' not reporting assaults ' 10 jan 08 -pipe- health taskforce to tackle nhs violence 03 oct 07 -pipe- wales ' high violence ' against nhs staff 22 mar 06 -pipe- wales attacks on nurses ' on the rise ' 28 feb 06 -pipe- health violence on nhs staff ' costs £ 6m ' 22 sep 05 -pipe- wales police start patrols at city a & e 24 aug 05 -pipe- south west wales related internet links welsh assembly government royal college of nursing wales nhs wales the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened protein in brain linked to autism bahrain and iran expel diplomats japan nuclear progress as toll up crucifixes in classrooms ' legal ' ' drugs to the brain ' breakthrough most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened missile destroys gaddafi building japan nuclear progress as toll up live : libya crisis bahrain and iran expel diplomats drones ' winning ' war against al-qaeda uk missiles bombard libya again in pictures : south africa 's ruthless ' red ants ' eviction squad taxing the oldest profession in amsterdam us phone firm at & t in $ 39bn deal iron age hilltop test 's ' success ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' tanks and snipers ' all around misrata tsunami floodgate that did n't work what next for gaddafi and libya ?
new footage : japan tsunami at sea whale 's ' yacht landing ' caught on film gaddafi defiant after air strikes how technology helps with aftermath of disasters the moment tsunami hit miyako city one-minute world news benghazi ' hopeful ' of gaddafi defeat most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 38,957 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:52 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:52 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence about 20 nhs staff complain of physical or mental abuse a day a former senior police officer has been appointed to drive forward protection for nhs staff in wales from violence .
david francis , a former south wales deputy chief constable , will act as a " champion " to help implement such measures as police patrols .
there will also be more cctv and staff training after a report by the assembly government made the recommendations , which are being costed .
unions praised the assembly government for accepting the recommendations .
the new role for mr francis , who is the chair of cwm taf nhs trust , will see him lead on the development of a publicity strategy to ensure nhs staff know what is being done to address the issue , said health minister edwina hart .
more than 20 nhs staff in wales complain of physical or mental abuse in a typical day .
the report , which was prepared by a group consisting of representatives from healthcare unions , also recommended that nhs trusts ensure they work with the crown prosecution service to ensure the effective prosecution of violent people .
violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services richard jones , royal college of nursing wales employers must encourage and support victims of attacks to act as witnesses in prosecutions , said the report .
staff should also have free access to solicitors to pursue prosecutions and the recovery of additional costs incurred resulting from violent acts at work , it said .
ms hart said work was underway on costing and prioritising the recommendations .
" when this work has been done we will publish a detailed plan which will show staff exactly what actions we will be taking over the next few years to tackle violence and aggression against nhs staff , " she said .
mr francis has been appointed the all-wales violence and aggression champion because of his experience in tackling crime and anti-social behaviour , she said .
" i believe he has the right skills from both the police and health services to take forward these extremely important recommendations to make a real difference for staff and patients , " added ms hart .
' strong message ' richard jones , interim director of royal college of nursing -lrb- rcn -rrb- wales , said : " violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services .
" we welcome this strong message from the welsh assembly government that it will no longer be tolerated and that staff will be protected and supported to pursue prosecutions . "
derek walker of the wales tuc said : " that the assembly government has fully accepted the recommendations is a testament to all the parties involved and trade unions will be continuing to work with key partners to see the measures outlined in the report are implemented effectively . "
the move comes two months after welsh ministers rejected the chance to extend a new law which would have given welsh nhs staff extra legal protection from violence and abuse .
at the time the assembly government said it was developing its own policies .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also nhs violence law rejected by ams 28 mar 08 -pipe- wales doctors ' not reporting assaults ' 10 jan 08 -pipe- health taskforce to tackle nhs violence 03 oct 07 -pipe- wales ' high violence ' against nhs staff 22 mar 06 -pipe- wales attacks on nurses ' on the rise ' 28 feb 06 -pipe- health violence on nhs staff ' costs £ 6m ' 22 sep 05 -pipe- wales police start patrols at city a & e 24 aug 05 -pipe- south west wales related internet links welsh assembly government royal college of nursing wales nhs wales the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened how far can a 100-word vocabulary get you ?
thailand battles southern floods australian dollar at 29-year high obama not ruling out libya arms most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened japan to scrap stricken reactors obama not ruling out libya arms missing nyc cobra now ' tweeting ' baltic message in bottle answered facebook removes ' intifada ' page virginia tech fined over massacre tepco president taken to hospital inquiry into ' fake bomb ' flight royal weddings of the past live : libya and mid-east crisis most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened olga kotelko : the 91-year-old track star the moment reagan was shot one-minute world news clashes on the front line in libya us to ' keep pressure ' on gaddafi how the tsunami unfolded libya : air strikes will continue , says us searching for the american dream s korea 's economy speeds ahead raf pilot recalls libyan missions most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme track star the canadian breaking records in her nineties saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 96,086 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:52 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 06:52 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' champion ' to tackle nhs violence about 20 nhs staff complain of physical or mental abuse a day a former senior police officer has been appointed to drive forward protection for nhs staff in wales from violence .
david francis , a former south wales deputy chief constable , will act as a " champion " to help implement such measures as police patrols .
there will also be more cctv and staff training after a report by the assembly government made the recommendations , which are being costed .
unions praised the assembly government for accepting the recommendations .
the new role for mr francis , who is the chair of cwm taf nhs trust , will see him lead on the development of a publicity strategy to ensure nhs staff know what is being done to address the issue , said health minister edwina hart .
more than 20 nhs staff in wales complain of physical or mental abuse in a typical day .
the report , which was prepared by a group consisting of representatives from healthcare unions , also recommended that nhs trusts ensure they work with the crown prosecution service to ensure the effective prosecution of violent people .
violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services richard jones , royal college of nursing wales employers must encourage and support victims of attacks to act as witnesses in prosecutions , said the report .
staff should also have free access to solicitors to pursue prosecutions and the recovery of additional costs incurred resulting from violent acts at work , it said .
ms hart said work was underway on costing and prioritising the recommendations .
" when this work has been done we will publish a detailed plan which will show staff exactly what actions we will be taking over the next few years to tackle violence and aggression against nhs staff , " she said .
mr francis has been appointed the all-wales violence and aggression champion because of his experience in tackling crime and anti-social behaviour , she said .
" i believe he has the right skills from both the police and health services to take forward these extremely important recommendations to make a real difference for staff and patients , " added ms hart .
' strong message ' richard jones , interim director of royal college of nursing -lrb- rcn -rrb- wales , said : " violent attacks and aggressive behaviour towards nhs staff has become a blight upon the provision on health services .
" we welcome this strong message from the welsh assembly government that it will no longer be tolerated and that staff will be protected and supported to pursue prosecutions . "
derek walker of the wales tuc said : " that the assembly government has fully accepted the recommendations is a testament to all the parties involved and trade unions will be continuing to work with key partners to see the measures outlined in the report are implemented effectively . "
the move comes two months after welsh ministers rejected the chance to extend a new law which would have given welsh nhs staff extra legal protection from violence and abuse .
at the time the assembly government said it was developing its own policies .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also nhs violence law rejected by ams 28 mar 08 -pipe- wales doctors ' not reporting assaults ' 10 jan 08 -pipe- health taskforce to tackle nhs violence 03 oct 07 -pipe- wales ' high violence ' against nhs staff 22 mar 06 -pipe- wales attacks on nurses ' on the rise ' 28 feb 06 -pipe- health violence on nhs staff ' costs £ 6m ' 22 sep 05 -pipe- wales police start patrols at city a & e 24 aug 05 -pipe- south west wales related internet links welsh assembly government royal college of nursing wales nhs wales the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened is this the world 's smartest dog ?
pi calculated to ' record number ' japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat schools closed after snowfall snow disrupts schools and travel most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened snow disrupts schools and travel japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat pornographic videos flood youtube obama given intelligence pledge pi calculated to ' record number ' stallone injured in fight scenes bbc news - in pictures : uk ' deep freeze ' spreads google phone to protect ad empire china rejects iran un sanctions explosive planted in airport test most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened is this the world 's smartest dog ?
us state reviews shackling laws swiss avalanche death toll rises one-minute world news porn videos floods youtube viewers ' videos of snow scenes aerial view of the snow europe ' will continue to shiver ' china 's sparkling ice festival runaway pig sparks road chase most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland empire protection why google needs a new mobile phone most popular now most popular now -pipe- 125,614 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- blue flag goes to unlikely beach accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:04 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:04 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version blue flag goes to unlikely beach please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement aberavon beach , which is near the port talbot steelworks , is awarded blue flag status .
by nick parry bbc news website with port talbot 's giant steelworks looming large on the horizon , aberavon beach may seem an unlikely blue flag winner .
but for the first time since the awards began , and after almost £ 4m investment over the past 10 years , it has joined 41 other beaches and five marinas in wales in the top category .
they are all judged against a total of 29 criteria which include high quality water , good litter management and strict dog control .
other newcomers to the list include church bay , anglesey and newport beach , pembrokeshire .
but for some , aberavon may be the most surprising new addition .
up until the mid-1960s , it was a vibrant destination for miners and their families looking for a day 's escape from the surrounding valleys communities .
but much like the now-redundant pits , the seafront fell on hard times too .
not that you would know it by visiting today .
it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous jean morgan although the schools have yet to break up and the weather is far from scorching , the cafes that have sprouted up on the front are busy while there are no shortage of walkers taking in the view across the bay to swansea .
with over three miles of sand it takes a lot of people to make the beach look busy but para-kiters were making the most of the space .
david jordon , who has lived near the seafront for 20 years , said a lot had changed in that time .
" it used to be very quiet down here , even five years ago , " he said .
" but now it 's very busy , particularly when the weather 's good . "
a wheelchair user , he said he was particularly appreciative of the investment made making the promenade accessible to all .
more than £ 1.5m has been spent improving parking , landscaping the surrounding area , installing new railings , signs , lights and street furniture .
the beach attracts para-kiters , walkers and recently , seafront developers a further £ 2m has been spent on leisure facilities , including a sandcastle play area , skateboard park , amphitheatre , piazza and improved toilets .
as well as the new cafes , there are modern sculptures and over 240 new seafront houses have been built with more to follow .
neath port talbot council leader derek vaughn said in 1998 the authority took the decision to invest in the area and chase blue flag status .
" the regeneration works carried out in the area will make aberavon a more attractive place to visit , live and invest in , " he said .
" the blue flag is the icing on the cake . "
for childhood friends jean morgan and moira patterson , who grew up together in cwmavon in the 1930s , the changes could not be more dramatic .
" it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous , " said mrs morgan .
" the front was mainly sand dunes then .
there was one arcade you could play games along with the alexander cafe and the beach hotel but that was it . "
mrs patterson , who emigrated to america 60 years ago and was back this week visiting her friend , said : " it 's really so pretty and beautiful , but it 's changed a lot . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
south west wales find out more about what is going on across the region see also five welsh beaches lose blue flag 16 nov 07 -pipe- mid wales dead humpback whale examination 27 may 08 -pipe- south west wales first blue flag for popular beach 17 may 06 -pipe- mid wales beach blue flag bid in ' jeopardy ' 11 may 06 -pipe- mid wales blue flag beach record for wales 15 may 06 -pipe- wales wales tops clean beach table 04 jun 04 -pipe- wales related internet links blue flag keep wales tidy the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man in hiding betrayed by pet dog odeon confirms wonderland boycott ba cabin crew back strike action brown ' not warned over bullying ' topless tobogganing in germany most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog odeon confirms wonderland boycott threat from e-waste ' mountains ' tv man gave up dead lover 's name day in pictures guilty plea in new york bomb plot swiss man surrenders to libyans oil drilling starts in falklands us-led advance in marjah ' steady ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music one-minute world news fresh madeira landslide warning israeli drone ' can reach iran ' archery lesson for blindfolded prince highlights from the bafta awards israeli-born face deportation father on false paedophilia facebook posts most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers day in pictures eye-catching images from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 48,386 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- blue flag goes to unlikely beach accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:04 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:04 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version blue flag goes to unlikely beach please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement aberavon beach , which is near the port talbot steelworks , is awarded blue flag status .
by nick parry bbc news website with port talbot 's giant steelworks looming large on the horizon , aberavon beach may seem an unlikely blue flag winner .
but for the first time since the awards began , and after almost £ 4m investment over the past 10 years , it has joined 41 other beaches and five marinas in wales in the top category .
they are all judged against a total of 29 criteria which include high quality water , good litter management and strict dog control .
other newcomers to the list include church bay , anglesey and newport beach , pembrokeshire .
but for some , aberavon may be the most surprising new addition .
up until the mid-1960s , it was a vibrant destination for miners and their families looking for a day 's escape from the surrounding valleys communities .
but much like the now-redundant pits , the seafront fell on hard times too .
not that you would know it by visiting today .
it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous jean morgan although the schools have yet to break up and the weather is far from scorching , the cafes that have sprouted up on the front are busy while there are no shortage of walkers taking in the view across the bay to swansea .
with over three miles of sand it takes a lot of people to make the beach look busy but para-kiters were making the most of the space .
david jordon , who has lived near the seafront for 20 years , said a lot had changed in that time .
" it used to be very quiet down here , even five years ago , " he said .
" but now it 's very busy , particularly when the weather 's good . "
a wheelchair user , he said he was particularly appreciative of the investment made making the promenade accessible to all .
more than £ 1.5m has been spent improving parking , landscaping the surrounding area , installing new railings , signs , lights and street furniture .
the beach attracts para-kiters , walkers and recently , seafront developers a further £ 2m has been spent on leisure facilities , including a sandcastle play area , skateboard park , amphitheatre , piazza and improved toilets .
as well as the new cafes , there are modern sculptures and over 240 new seafront houses have been built with more to follow .
neath port talbot council leader derek vaughn said in 1998 the authority took the decision to invest in the area and chase blue flag status .
" the regeneration works carried out in the area will make aberavon a more attractive place to visit , live and invest in , " he said .
" the blue flag is the icing on the cake . "
for childhood friends jean morgan and moira patterson , who grew up together in cwmavon in the 1930s , the changes could not be more dramatic .
" it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous , " said mrs morgan .
" the front was mainly sand dunes then .
there was one arcade you could play games along with the alexander cafe and the beach hotel but that was it . "
mrs patterson , who emigrated to america 60 years ago and was back this week visiting her friend , said : " it 's really so pretty and beautiful , but it 's changed a lot . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
south west wales find out more about what is going on across the region see also five welsh beaches lose blue flag 16 nov 07 -pipe- mid wales dead humpback whale examination 27 may 08 -pipe- south west wales first blue flag for popular beach 17 may 06 -pipe- mid wales beach blue flag bid in ' jeopardy ' 11 may 06 -pipe- mid wales blue flag beach record for wales 15 may 06 -pipe- wales wales tops clean beach table 04 jun 04 -pipe- wales related internet links blue flag keep wales tidy the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened mass cannibalism clues uncovered when doing nothing is an option church rift flares after gay vote iphone orchestra ready for debut nz man ' injected wife with hiv ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened mass cannibalism clues uncovered no bin laden reports ' in years ' queen issues warning to paparazzi nz man ' injected wife with hiv ' clashes erupt during athens march husband arrested after body find celebrity winner faces rat charge church rift flares after gay vote when doing nothing is an option japan 's hotels woo train spotters most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened taliban commander warns us one-minute world news clashes at athens teen death march science explained : greenhouse effect in a bottle indian airforce 's helicopter display five minutes with : amanda holden second funeral for chilean activist swedish store pulls n korea jeans aceh five years since the tsunami dubai woes cause expat headache most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis carbon wingprints is it right to fly off on holiday , asks bbc ethical man friends in need neighbours and family help samoa 's disaster recovery in pictures martial law crackdown in philippines ' south most popular now most popular now -pipe- 69,929 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- blue flag goes to unlikely beach accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:04 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:04 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version blue flag goes to unlikely beach please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement aberavon beach , which is near the port talbot steelworks , is awarded blue flag status .
by nick parry bbc news website with port talbot 's giant steelworks looming large on the horizon , aberavon beach may seem an unlikely blue flag winner .
but for the first time since the awards began , and after almost £ 4m investment over the past 10 years , it has joined 41 other beaches and five marinas in wales in the top category .
they are all judged against a total of 29 criteria which include high quality water , good litter management and strict dog control .
other newcomers to the list include church bay , anglesey and newport beach , pembrokeshire .
but for some , aberavon may be the most surprising new addition .
up until the mid-1960s , it was a vibrant destination for miners and their families looking for a day 's escape from the surrounding valleys communities .
but much like the now-redundant pits , the seafront fell on hard times too .
not that you would know it by visiting today .
it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous jean morgan although the schools have yet to break up and the weather is far from scorching , the cafes that have sprouted up on the front are busy while there are no shortage of walkers taking in the view across the bay to swansea .
with over three miles of sand it takes a lot of people to make the beach look busy but para-kiters were making the most of the space .
david jordon , who has lived near the seafront for 20 years , said a lot had changed in that time .
" it used to be very quiet down here , even five years ago , " he said .
" but now it 's very busy , particularly when the weather 's good . "
a wheelchair user , he said he was particularly appreciative of the investment made making the promenade accessible to all .
more than £ 1.5m has been spent improving parking , landscaping the surrounding area , installing new railings , signs , lights and street furniture .
the beach attracts para-kiters , walkers and recently , seafront developers a further £ 2m has been spent on leisure facilities , including a sandcastle play area , skateboard park , amphitheatre , piazza and improved toilets .
as well as the new cafes , there are modern sculptures and over 240 new seafront houses have been built with more to follow .
neath port talbot council leader derek vaughn said in 1998 the authority took the decision to invest in the area and chase blue flag status .
" the regeneration works carried out in the area will make aberavon a more attractive place to visit , live and invest in , " he said .
" the blue flag is the icing on the cake . "
for childhood friends jean morgan and moira patterson , who grew up together in cwmavon in the 1930s , the changes could not be more dramatic .
" it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous , " said mrs morgan .
" the front was mainly sand dunes then .
there was one arcade you could play games along with the alexander cafe and the beach hotel but that was it . "
mrs patterson , who emigrated to america 60 years ago and was back this week visiting her friend , said : " it 's really so pretty and beautiful , but it 's changed a lot . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
south west wales find out more about what is going on across the region see also five welsh beaches lose blue flag 16 nov 07 -pipe- mid wales dead humpback whale examination 27 may 08 -pipe- south west wales first blue flag for popular beach 17 may 06 -pipe- mid wales beach blue flag bid in ' jeopardy ' 11 may 06 -pipe- mid wales blue flag beach record for wales 15 may 06 -pipe- wales wales tops clean beach table 04 jun 04 -pipe- wales related internet links blue flag keep wales tidy the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened llandarcy : down to the last drop plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' in pictures : birmingham snow 2010 yemen ' arrests al-qaeda suspects ' bbc - in pictures : jimmy page 's house most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened snow disrupts schools and travel obama given intelligence pledge pornographic videos flood youtube japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat australia downplays india warning pi calculated to ' record number ' explosive planted in airport test plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' atom bomb survivor dies , aged 93 google phone to protect ad empire most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened swiss avalanche death toll rises europe ' will continue to shiver ' porn videos floods youtube viewers ' videos of snow scenes china 's sparkling ice festival google unveils nexus one handset runaway pig sparks road chase ' up to 40cm of snow expected ' aerial view of the snow ' a challenge of utmost urgency ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland empire protection why google needs a new mobile phone most popular now most popular now -pipe- 95,443 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- blue flag goes to unlikely beach british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:04 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:04 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version blue flag goes to unlikely beach please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement aberavon beach , which is near the port talbot steelworks , is awarded blue flag status .
by nick parry bbc news website with port talbot 's giant steelworks looming large on the horizon , aberavon beach may seem an unlikely blue flag winner .
but for the first time since the awards began , and after almost £ 4m investment over the past 10 years , it has joined 41 other beaches and five marinas in wales in the top category .
they are all judged against a total of 29 criteria which include high quality water , good litter management and strict dog control .
other newcomers to the list include church bay , anglesey and newport beach , pembrokeshire .
but for some , aberavon may be the most surprising new addition .
up until the mid-1960s , it was a vibrant destination for miners and their families looking for a day 's escape from the surrounding valleys communities .
but much like the now-redundant pits , the seafront fell on hard times too .
not that you would know it by visiting today .
it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous jean morgan although the schools have yet to break up and the weather is far from scorching , the cafes that have sprouted up on the front are busy while there are no shortage of walkers taking in the view across the bay to swansea .
with over three miles of sand it takes a lot of people to make the beach look busy but para-kiters were making the most of the space .
david jordon , who has lived near the seafront for 20 years , said a lot had changed in that time .
" it used to be very quiet down here , even five years ago , " he said .
" but now it 's very busy , particularly when the weather 's good . "
a wheelchair user , he said he was particularly appreciative of the investment made making the promenade accessible to all .
more than £ 1.5m has been spent improving parking , landscaping the surrounding area , installing new railings , signs , lights and street furniture .
the beach attracts para-kiters , walkers and recently , seafront developers a further £ 2m has been spent on leisure facilities , including a sandcastle play area , skateboard park , amphitheatre , piazza and improved toilets .
as well as the new cafes , there are modern sculptures and over 240 new seafront houses have been built with more to follow .
neath port talbot council leader derek vaughn said in 1998 the authority took the decision to invest in the area and chase blue flag status .
" the regeneration works carried out in the area will make aberavon a more attractive place to visit , live and invest in , " he said .
" the blue flag is the icing on the cake . "
for childhood friends jean morgan and moira patterson , who grew up together in cwmavon in the 1930s , the changes could not be more dramatic .
" it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous , " said mrs morgan .
" the front was mainly sand dunes then .
there was one arcade you could play games along with the alexander cafe and the beach hotel but that was it . "
mrs patterson , who emigrated to america 60 years ago and was back this week visiting her friend , said : " it 's really so pretty and beautiful , but it 's changed a lot . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
south west wales find out more about what is going on across the region see also five welsh beaches lose blue flag 16 nov 07 -pipe- mid wales dead humpback whale examination 27 may 08 -pipe- south west wales first blue flag for popular beach 17 may 06 -pipe- mid wales beach blue flag bid in ' jeopardy ' 11 may 06 -pipe- mid wales blue flag beach record for wales 15 may 06 -pipe- wales wales tops clean beach table 04 jun 04 -pipe- wales related internet links blue flag keep wales tidy the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened how far can a 100-word vocabulary get you ?
bahrain hospital on the front line most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libya foreign minister ' defects ' japan to scrap stricken reactors ivorian fighters ' take capital ' the art of the perfect prank taking space travel to the masses libya and mid-east crisis as it happened : wednesday royal weddings of the past guard arrested near 2012 stadium syria vows to defeat ' plotters ' thailand battles southern floods most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened inside the virgin galactic spaceship noisy trousers create jeans beat joy and despair after cricket epic japan 's emperor visits tsunami victims inside the virgin spaceport glee star morrison ' still alone ' libya rebels ask allies for arms olga kotelko : the 91-year-old track star a good time to visit the middle east ?
radcliffe in broadway musical debut most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 28,314 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- blue flag goes to unlikely beach british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:04 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:04 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version blue flag goes to unlikely beach please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement aberavon beach , which is near the port talbot steelworks , is awarded blue flag status .
by nick parry bbc news website with port talbot 's giant steelworks looming large on the horizon , aberavon beach may seem an unlikely blue flag winner .
but for the first time since the awards began , and after almost £ 4m investment over the past 10 years , it has joined 41 other beaches and five marinas in wales in the top category .
they are all judged against a total of 29 criteria which include high quality water , good litter management and strict dog control .
other newcomers to the list include church bay , anglesey and newport beach , pembrokeshire .
but for some , aberavon may be the most surprising new addition .
up until the mid-1960s , it was a vibrant destination for miners and their families looking for a day 's escape from the surrounding valleys communities .
but much like the now-redundant pits , the seafront fell on hard times too .
not that you would know it by visiting today .
it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous jean morgan although the schools have yet to break up and the weather is far from scorching , the cafes that have sprouted up on the front are busy while there are no shortage of walkers taking in the view across the bay to swansea .
with over three miles of sand it takes a lot of people to make the beach look busy but para-kiters were making the most of the space .
david jordon , who has lived near the seafront for 20 years , said a lot had changed in that time .
" it used to be very quiet down here , even five years ago , " he said .
" but now it 's very busy , particularly when the weather 's good . "
a wheelchair user , he said he was particularly appreciative of the investment made making the promenade accessible to all .
more than £ 1.5m has been spent improving parking , landscaping the surrounding area , installing new railings , signs , lights and street furniture .
the beach attracts para-kiters , walkers and recently , seafront developers a further £ 2m has been spent on leisure facilities , including a sandcastle play area , skateboard park , amphitheatre , piazza and improved toilets .
as well as the new cafes , there are modern sculptures and over 240 new seafront houses have been built with more to follow .
neath port talbot council leader derek vaughn said in 1998 the authority took the decision to invest in the area and chase blue flag status .
" the regeneration works carried out in the area will make aberavon a more attractive place to visit , live and invest in , " he said .
" the blue flag is the icing on the cake . "
for childhood friends jean morgan and moira patterson , who grew up together in cwmavon in the 1930s , the changes could not be more dramatic .
" it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous , " said mrs morgan .
" the front was mainly sand dunes then .
there was one arcade you could play games along with the alexander cafe and the beach hotel but that was it . "
mrs patterson , who emigrated to america 60 years ago and was back this week visiting her friend , said : " it 's really so pretty and beautiful , but it 's changed a lot . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
south west wales find out more about what is going on across the region see also five welsh beaches lose blue flag 16 nov 07 -pipe- mid wales dead humpback whale examination 27 may 08 -pipe- south west wales first blue flag for popular beach 17 may 06 -pipe- mid wales beach blue flag bid in ' jeopardy ' 11 may 06 -pipe- mid wales blue flag beach record for wales 15 may 06 -pipe- wales wales tops clean beach table 04 jun 04 -pipe- wales related internet links blue flag keep wales tidy the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened lab-grown urethra ' world first ' full face transplant for us man daniel o 'donnell breaks uk chart record for album sales hobbit filming finally under way most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened us ' to tone down role in libya ' physics predicts end of religion japan will overcome crisis - iaea live : libya crisis what chance of a ' big one ' in tokyo ?
apology over donkey-botherer jibe hobbit filming finally under way russian leaders spar over libya yemeni general backs opposition israel launches gaza air strikes most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened tsunami floodgate ' did not work ' rebels visit coalition attack site chocolate , beer and coffee in lviv tsunami children hunt for parents footage of moment tsunami hit japan libya : gaddafi 's war of words one-minute world news ivory coast army press gbagbo downloading college lectures first full face transplant in us most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 40,257 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- blue flag goes to unlikely beach british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:04 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:04 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version blue flag goes to unlikely beach please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement aberavon beach , which is near the port talbot steelworks , is awarded blue flag status .
by nick parry bbc news website with port talbot 's giant steelworks looming large on the horizon , aberavon beach may seem an unlikely blue flag winner .
but for the first time since the awards began , and after almost £ 4m investment over the past 10 years , it has joined 41 other beaches and five marinas in wales in the top category .
they are all judged against a total of 29 criteria which include high quality water , good litter management and strict dog control .
other newcomers to the list include church bay , anglesey and newport beach , pembrokeshire .
but for some , aberavon may be the most surprising new addition .
up until the mid-1960s , it was a vibrant destination for miners and their families looking for a day 's escape from the surrounding valleys communities .
but much like the now-redundant pits , the seafront fell on hard times too .
not that you would know it by visiting today .
it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous jean morgan although the schools have yet to break up and the weather is far from scorching , the cafes that have sprouted up on the front are busy while there are no shortage of walkers taking in the view across the bay to swansea .
with over three miles of sand it takes a lot of people to make the beach look busy but para-kiters were making the most of the space .
david jordon , who has lived near the seafront for 20 years , said a lot had changed in that time .
" it used to be very quiet down here , even five years ago , " he said .
" but now it 's very busy , particularly when the weather 's good . "
a wheelchair user , he said he was particularly appreciative of the investment made making the promenade accessible to all .
more than £ 1.5m has been spent improving parking , landscaping the surrounding area , installing new railings , signs , lights and street furniture .
the beach attracts para-kiters , walkers and recently , seafront developers a further £ 2m has been spent on leisure facilities , including a sandcastle play area , skateboard park , amphitheatre , piazza and improved toilets .
as well as the new cafes , there are modern sculptures and over 240 new seafront houses have been built with more to follow .
neath port talbot council leader derek vaughn said in 1998 the authority took the decision to invest in the area and chase blue flag status .
" the regeneration works carried out in the area will make aberavon a more attractive place to visit , live and invest in , " he said .
" the blue flag is the icing on the cake . "
for childhood friends jean morgan and moira patterson , who grew up together in cwmavon in the 1930s , the changes could not be more dramatic .
" it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous , " said mrs morgan .
" the front was mainly sand dunes then .
there was one arcade you could play games along with the alexander cafe and the beach hotel but that was it . "
mrs patterson , who emigrated to america 60 years ago and was back this week visiting her friend , said : " it 's really so pretty and beautiful , but it 's changed a lot . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
south west wales find out more about what is going on across the region see also five welsh beaches lose blue flag 16 nov 07 -pipe- mid wales dead humpback whale examination 27 may 08 -pipe- south west wales first blue flag for popular beach 17 may 06 -pipe- mid wales beach blue flag bid in ' jeopardy ' 11 may 06 -pipe- mid wales blue flag beach record for wales 15 may 06 -pipe- wales wales tops clean beach table 04 jun 04 -pipe- wales related internet links blue flag keep wales tidy the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened sa ' mugger ' baboon to be put down defecating dog sparks us shootout botanic gardens ' invasives ' role libya no-fly zone : coalition firepower sea radioactive near japan plant most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan rebels recapture key town sea radioactive near japan plant live : libya and mid-east crisis us beauty queen wins ' fat ' case thousands begin anti-cuts march defecating dog sparks us shootout a new way to look at radiation the muammar gaddafi story us priests in sex abuse pay-out sa ' mugger ' baboon to be put down most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan rebels ' recapture ' ajdabiya tsunami victims vow never to return the sxsw geeks who love to tinker tsunami wave sweeps inland japan : radioactive levels in sea ' high ' one-minute world news ' there is an alternative ' , says balls five minutes with : simon schama narrow escape for japan office workers inside japan 's nuclear exclusion zone most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 73,414 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- blue flag goes to unlikely beach british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:04 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:04 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version blue flag goes to unlikely beach please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement aberavon beach , which is near the port talbot steelworks , is awarded blue flag status .
by nick parry bbc news website with port talbot 's giant steelworks looming large on the horizon , aberavon beach may seem an unlikely blue flag winner .
but for the first time since the awards began , and after almost £ 4m investment over the past 10 years , it has joined 41 other beaches and five marinas in wales in the top category .
they are all judged against a total of 29 criteria which include high quality water , good litter management and strict dog control .
other newcomers to the list include church bay , anglesey and newport beach , pembrokeshire .
but for some , aberavon may be the most surprising new addition .
up until the mid-1960s , it was a vibrant destination for miners and their families looking for a day 's escape from the surrounding valleys communities .
but much like the now-redundant pits , the seafront fell on hard times too .
not that you would know it by visiting today .
it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous jean morgan although the schools have yet to break up and the weather is far from scorching , the cafes that have sprouted up on the front are busy while there are no shortage of walkers taking in the view across the bay to swansea .
with over three miles of sand it takes a lot of people to make the beach look busy but para-kiters were making the most of the space .
david jordon , who has lived near the seafront for 20 years , said a lot had changed in that time .
" it used to be very quiet down here , even five years ago , " he said .
" but now it 's very busy , particularly when the weather 's good . "
a wheelchair user , he said he was particularly appreciative of the investment made making the promenade accessible to all .
more than £ 1.5m has been spent improving parking , landscaping the surrounding area , installing new railings , signs , lights and street furniture .
the beach attracts para-kiters , walkers and recently , seafront developers a further £ 2m has been spent on leisure facilities , including a sandcastle play area , skateboard park , amphitheatre , piazza and improved toilets .
as well as the new cafes , there are modern sculptures and over 240 new seafront houses have been built with more to follow .
neath port talbot council leader derek vaughn said in 1998 the authority took the decision to invest in the area and chase blue flag status .
" the regeneration works carried out in the area will make aberavon a more attractive place to visit , live and invest in , " he said .
" the blue flag is the icing on the cake . "
for childhood friends jean morgan and moira patterson , who grew up together in cwmavon in the 1930s , the changes could not be more dramatic .
" it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous , " said mrs morgan .
" the front was mainly sand dunes then .
there was one arcade you could play games along with the alexander cafe and the beach hotel but that was it . "
mrs patterson , who emigrated to america 60 years ago and was back this week visiting her friend , said : " it 's really so pretty and beautiful , but it 's changed a lot . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
south west wales find out more about what is going on across the region see also five welsh beaches lose blue flag 16 nov 07 -pipe- mid wales dead humpback whale examination 27 may 08 -pipe- south west wales first blue flag for popular beach 17 may 06 -pipe- mid wales beach blue flag bid in ' jeopardy ' 11 may 06 -pipe- mid wales blue flag beach record for wales 15 may 06 -pipe- wales wales tops clean beach table 04 jun 04 -pipe- wales related internet links blue flag keep wales tidy the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened how bretton woods reshaped the world how earthquakes happen most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened three bodies found in hollow tree firing range twins ' suicide pact ' what has playboy ever done for free speech ?
' alien ' planet found in milky way berlusconi ' enhances ' roman nudes ' miners missing ' after nz explosion camera takes photos around corner irish defend corporation tax rate a380 engine blast ' broke cables ' nato set for crucial lisbon talks most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ruby bridges on how she changed america world 's tallest married couple the islamic insurgency in dagestan nz mine blast : " we hang on to hope ' top mafia boss arrested in italy boyle album is transatlantic no.1 ' alien ' planet detected circling dying star one-minute world news distant planet ' could have life ' women dice with death on m6 most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 83,571 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- blue flag goes to unlikely beach british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:04 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:04 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version blue flag goes to unlikely beach please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement aberavon beach , which is near the port talbot steelworks , is awarded blue flag status .
by nick parry bbc news website with port talbot 's giant steelworks looming large on the horizon , aberavon beach may seem an unlikely blue flag winner .
but for the first time since the awards began , and after almost £ 4m investment over the past 10 years , it has joined 41 other beaches and five marinas in wales in the top category .
they are all judged against a total of 29 criteria which include high quality water , good litter management and strict dog control .
other newcomers to the list include church bay , anglesey and newport beach , pembrokeshire .
but for some , aberavon may be the most surprising new addition .
up until the mid-1960s , it was a vibrant destination for miners and their families looking for a day 's escape from the surrounding valleys communities .
but much like the now-redundant pits , the seafront fell on hard times too .
not that you would know it by visiting today .
it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous jean morgan although the schools have yet to break up and the weather is far from scorching , the cafes that have sprouted up on the front are busy while there are no shortage of walkers taking in the view across the bay to swansea .
with over three miles of sand it takes a lot of people to make the beach look busy but para-kiters were making the most of the space .
david jordon , who has lived near the seafront for 20 years , said a lot had changed in that time .
" it used to be very quiet down here , even five years ago , " he said .
" but now it 's very busy , particularly when the weather 's good . "
a wheelchair user , he said he was particularly appreciative of the investment made making the promenade accessible to all .
more than £ 1.5m has been spent improving parking , landscaping the surrounding area , installing new railings , signs , lights and street furniture .
the beach attracts para-kiters , walkers and recently , seafront developers a further £ 2m has been spent on leisure facilities , including a sandcastle play area , skateboard park , amphitheatre , piazza and improved toilets .
as well as the new cafes , there are modern sculptures and over 240 new seafront houses have been built with more to follow .
neath port talbot council leader derek vaughn said in 1998 the authority took the decision to invest in the area and chase blue flag status .
" the regeneration works carried out in the area will make aberavon a more attractive place to visit , live and invest in , " he said .
" the blue flag is the icing on the cake . "
for childhood friends jean morgan and moira patterson , who grew up together in cwmavon in the 1930s , the changes could not be more dramatic .
" it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous , " said mrs morgan .
" the front was mainly sand dunes then .
there was one arcade you could play games along with the alexander cafe and the beach hotel but that was it . "
mrs patterson , who emigrated to america 60 years ago and was back this week visiting her friend , said : " it 's really so pretty and beautiful , but it 's changed a lot . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
south west wales find out more about what is going on across the region see also five welsh beaches lose blue flag 16 nov 07 -pipe- mid wales dead humpback whale examination 27 may 08 -pipe- south west wales first blue flag for popular beach 17 may 06 -pipe- mid wales beach blue flag bid in ' jeopardy ' 11 may 06 -pipe- mid wales blue flag beach record for wales 15 may 06 -pipe- wales wales tops clean beach table 04 jun 04 -pipe- wales related internet links blue flag keep wales tidy the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales politics stories free childcare plan in poor areas call for change to bbc coverage israeli visit sparks boycott call most popular stories now shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem seychelles haven of the giant tortoise most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem arizona massacre suspect charged how giffords survived the shot iran plane crashes ' killing 72 ' undercover officer switches sides virgin ' wo n't pay ' fees over snow beckhams expecting fourth child rihanna makes history in uk chart arizona shooting : what we know seychelles haven of the giant tortoise most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news gifford ' miraculous ' to be alive ' i played dead to escape gunman ' loughner tackled by wounded woman customer gets airline boss attention sudanese vote in unity referendum bbc news channel cost of food sparks riots in algiers ' historic moment ' for south sudan mind tricks for new year dieting most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 29,657 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- wales politics -pipe- blue flag goes to unlikely beach bbc news / wales politics graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 06:04 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:04 uk blue flag goes to unlikely beach by nick parry bbc news website with port talbot 's giant steelworks looming large on the horizon , aberavon beach may seem an unlikely blue flag winner .
but for the first time since the awards began , and after almost £ 4m investment over the past 10 years , it has joined 41 other beaches and five marinas in wales in the top category .
they are all judged against a total of 29 criteria which include high quality water , good litter management and strict dog control .
other newcomers to the list include church bay , anglesey and newport beach , pembrokeshire .
but for some , aberavon may be the most surprising new addition .
up until the mid-1960s , it was a vibrant destination for miners and their families looking for a day 's escape from the surrounding valleys communities .
but much like the now-redundant pits , the seafront fell on hard times too .
not that you would know it by visiting today . "
it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous " jean morgan although the schools have yet to break up and the weather is far from scorching , the cafes that have sprouted up on the front are busy while there are no shortage of walkers taking in the view across the bay to swansea .
with over three miles of sand it takes a lot of people to make the beach look busy but para-kiters were making the most of the space .
david jordon , who has lived near the seafront for 20 years , said a lot had changed in that time .
" it used to be very quiet down here , even five years ago , " he said .
" but now it 's very busy , particularly when the weather 's good . "
a wheelchair user , he said he was particularly appreciative of the investment made making the promenade accessible to all .
more than £ 1.5m has been spent improving parking , landscaping the surrounding area , installing new railings , signs , lights and street furniture .
a further £ 2m has been spent on leisure facilities , including a sandcastle play area , skateboard park , amphitheatre , piazza and improved toilets .
as well as the new cafes , there are modern sculptures and over 240 new seafront houses have been built with more to follow .
neath port talbot council leader derek vaughn said in 1998 the authority took the decision to invest in the area and chase blue flag status .
" the regeneration works carried out in the area will make aberavon a more attractive place to visit , live and invest in , " he said .
" the blue flag is the icing on the cake . "
for childhood friends jean morgan and moira patterson , who grew up together in cwmavon in the 1930s , the changes could not be more dramatic .
" it used to be very dirty and i remember there was a wreck on the beach that used to be very dangerous , " said mrs morgan .
" the front was mainly sand dunes then .
there was one arcade you could play games along with the alexander cafe and the beach hotel but that was it . "
mrs patterson , who emigrated to america 60 years ago and was back this week visiting her friend , said : " it 's really so pretty and beautiful , but it 's changed a lot . "
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : five welsh beaches lose blue flag -lrb- 16 nov 07 -pipe- mid wales -rrb- dead humpback whale examination -lrb- 27 may 08 -pipe- south west wales -rrb- first blue flag for popular beach -lrb- 17 may 06 -pipe- mid wales -rrb- beach blue flag bid in ' jeopardy ' -lrb- 11 may 06 -pipe- mid wales -rrb- blue flag beach record for wales -lrb- 15 may 06 -pipe- wales -rrb- wales tops clean beach table -lrb- 04 jun 04 -pipe- wales -rrb- related internet links blue flag keep wales tidy the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- coming of age for festival at 21 bbc news / wales graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- magazine 06:17 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:17 uk coming of age for festival at 21 the hay festival is flinging open its doors for the 21st time .
literary , musical and political celebrities will descend on a tented village at hay-on-wye in powys which becomes its temporary home every may .
over the years it has become something of a mecca for not just of the literary kind , but personalities on a global scale .
jimmy carter follows bill clinton on the list of former us presidents who are flying in for the event .
other names include actresses kathleen turner , doctor who 's catherine tate , and author john irving .
from political circles , cherie booth , john prescott and lord levy bring their much talked-about memoirs to hay audiences over the next 11 days .
festival director peter florence admits the event , which is sponsored by the guardian newspaper and sky arts , has grown exponentially since it was dreamt up around a kitchen table in 1987 .
back then there were just six volunteers manning the show .
from thursday there will be 240 people on site managing hundreds of events , night and day .
but florence insists the ethos behind hay has not changed .
" the scale of it has grown but i think the philosophy is still the same , " he said .
" the ideas is still that its something between friends , going to see writers , musicians and politicians during the day , getting together to talk about what you 've seen in the day .
however , he also admits the economic implications of the literary get-together are " startling " .
" in that it 's a multi-million pound thing running as a charity and a social enterprise rather than a business .
it also generates about £ 15m of economic benefits to the community locally " .
jimmy carter 's appearance at hay this sunday is a nod to florence 's " abiding passion with britain 's relationship with america in politics and literature " .
now an elder statesman at 83 , mr carter won the 2002 nobel peace prize and has recently been on visits to the middle east .
another favourite for the director is john irving , writer of possibly florence 's favourite ever book the world according to garp in 1978 .
there is also something of a chess theme going to hay 2008 with gary kasparov talking about his fight standing up for democracy in russia -lrb- saturday 31 may -rrb- while fellow one-time champion boris spassky takes on 20 players simultaneously on sunday 25 may .
atonement writer ian mcewan is also putting on the world premiere of a new opera for you - written with composer michael berkeley - at this year 's festival .
literary tongue hay is not just hay any more though .
it takes on an outreach function with seven satellite festivals , including two in spain and one in columbia , tapping into spanish literature which florence calls the " other great literary tongue " .
this year there is another first a link up with a privately- run prison in south wales .
events in one of the festival venues are being beamed live to parc near bridgend and writers will be visiting inmates there too .
florence is passionate about spreading the literary message wherever he can .
but he says he does not want the festival enterprise to keep on growing .
" we do n't want it to get any bigger .
there 's something about the intimacy and that is very important . "
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : milton 's mulberry makes a move -lrb- 18 may 08 -pipe- uk -rrb- am 's spassky hay chess challenge -lrb- 10 may 08 -pipe- south west wales -rrb- related internet links hay festival the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- coming of age for festival at 21 accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:17 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:17 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coming of age for festival at 21 the festival attracts around 150,000 visitors to mid wales the hay festival is flinging open its doors for the 21st time .
literary , musical and political celebrities will descend on a tented village at hay-on-wye in powys which becomes its temporary home every may .
over the years it has become something of a mecca for not just of the literary kind , but personalities on a global scale .
jimmy carter follows bill clinton on the list of former us presidents who are flying in for the event .
other names include actresses kathleen turner , doctor who 's catherine tate , and author john irving .
from political circles , cherie booth , john prescott and lord levy bring their much talked-about memoirs to hay audiences over the next 11 days .
jimmy carter is the second former us president to speak at hay festival director peter florence admits the event , which is sponsored by the guardian newspaper and sky arts , has grown exponentially since it was dreamt up around a kitchen table in 1987 .
back then there were just six volunteers manning the show .
from thursday there will be 240 people on site managing hundreds of events , night and day .
but florence insists the ethos behind hay has not changed .
" the scale of it has grown but i think the philosophy is still the same , " he said .
" the ideas is still that its something between friends , going to see writers , musicians and politicians during the day , getting together to talk about what you 've seen in the day .
however , he also admits the economic implications of the literary get-together are " startling " .
the festival caters to more than book lovers " in that it 's a multi-million pound thing running as a charity and a social enterprise rather than a business .
it also generates about £ 15m of economic benefits to the community locally " .
jimmy carter 's appearance at hay this sunday is a nod to florence 's " abiding passion with britain 's relationship with america in politics and literature " .
now an elder statesman at 83 , mr carter won the 2002 nobel peace prize and has recently been on visits to the middle east .
another favourite for the director is john irving , writer of possibly florence 's favourite ever book the world according to garp in 1978 .
there is also something of a chess theme going to hay 2008 with gary kasparov talking about his fight standing up for democracy in russia -lrb- saturday 31 may -rrb- while fellow one-time champion boris spassky takes on 20 players simultaneously on sunday 25 may .
atonement writer ian mcewan is also putting on the world premiere of a new opera for you - written with composer michael berkeley - at this year 's festival .
literary tongue hay is not just hay any more though .
it takes on an outreach function with seven satellite festivals , including two in spain and one in columbia , tapping into spanish literature which florence calls the " other great literary tongue " .
this year there is another first a link up with a privately- run prison in south wales .
events in one of the festival venues are being beamed live to parc near bridgend and writers will be visiting inmates there too .
florence is passionate about spreading the literary message wherever he can .
but he says he does not want the festival enterprise to keep on growing .
" we do n't want it to get any bigger .
there 's something about the intimacy and that is very important . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also milton 's mulberry makes a move 18 may 08 -pipe- uk am 's spassky hay chess challenge 10 may 08 -pipe- south west wales related internet links hay festival the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories drug-resistant swine flu hits uk ' dream killer ' released by judge wales dances and sings for pudsey most popular stories now shared read watched / listened leaping wolf snatches photo prize large hadron collider works again childhood abuse ' quickens ageing ' mussolini ' brain for sale on web ' ethiopia convicts coup plotters most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened large hadron collider works again us couple admit spying for cuba italian sex scandal woman ' dead ' flood-hit areas braced for rain mussolini ' brain for sale on web ' uk navy fires on ' spanish flag ' israel halts stadium construction vatican talks over anglican plan drug-resistant swine flu hits uk childhood abuse ' quickens ageing ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened first a380 lands in new york cheers greet lhc restart aerial footage of flood damage excitement at ' big bang ' re-start window cleaner survives fall one-minute world news oprah announces end of show town centre flooded as rain batters uk ' big bang ' experiment to re-start looking for pirates in gulf of aden most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis homecoming hell tamil activists ' horror at what has become of jaffna water world filipino villages still deluged weeks after storms hit earth watch korean model for obama as copenhagen looms most popular now most popular now -pipe- 16,614 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- coming of age for festival at 21 british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:17 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:17 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coming of age for festival at 21 the festival attracts around 150,000 visitors to mid wales the hay festival is flinging open its doors for the 21st time .
literary , musical and political celebrities will descend on a tented village at hay-on-wye in powys which becomes its temporary home every may .
over the years it has become something of a mecca for not just of the literary kind , but personalities on a global scale .
jimmy carter follows bill clinton on the list of former us presidents who are flying in for the event .
other names include actresses kathleen turner , doctor who 's catherine tate , and author john irving .
from political circles , cherie booth , john prescott and lord levy bring their much talked-about memoirs to hay audiences over the next 11 days .
jimmy carter is the second former us president to speak at hay festival director peter florence admits the event , which is sponsored by the guardian newspaper and sky arts , has grown exponentially since it was dreamt up around a kitchen table in 1987 .
back then there were just six volunteers manning the show .
from thursday there will be 240 people on site managing hundreds of events , night and day .
but florence insists the ethos behind hay has not changed .
" the scale of it has grown but i think the philosophy is still the same , " he said .
" the ideas is still that its something between friends , going to see writers , musicians and politicians during the day , getting together to talk about what you 've seen in the day .
however , he also admits the economic implications of the literary get-together are " startling " .
the festival caters to more than book lovers " in that it 's a multi-million pound thing running as a charity and a social enterprise rather than a business .
it also generates about £ 15m of economic benefits to the community locally " .
jimmy carter 's appearance at hay this sunday is a nod to florence 's " abiding passion with britain 's relationship with america in politics and literature " .
now an elder statesman at 83 , mr carter won the 2002 nobel peace prize and has recently been on visits to the middle east .
another favourite for the director is john irving , writer of possibly florence 's favourite ever book the world according to garp in 1978 .
there is also something of a chess theme going to hay 2008 with gary kasparov talking about his fight standing up for democracy in russia -lrb- saturday 31 may -rrb- while fellow one-time champion boris spassky takes on 20 players simultaneously on sunday 25 may .
atonement writer ian mcewan is also putting on the world premiere of a new opera for you - written with composer michael berkeley - at this year 's festival .
literary tongue hay is not just hay any more though .
it takes on an outreach function with seven satellite festivals , including two in spain and one in columbia , tapping into spanish literature which florence calls the " other great literary tongue " .
this year there is another first a link up with a privately- run prison in south wales .
events in one of the festival venues are being beamed live to parc near bridgend and writers will be visiting inmates there too .
florence is passionate about spreading the literary message wherever he can .
but he says he does not want the festival enterprise to keep on growing .
" we do n't want it to get any bigger .
there 's something about the intimacy and that is very important . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also milton 's mulberry makes a move 18 may 08 -pipe- uk am 's spassky hay chess challenge 10 may 08 -pipe- south west wales related internet links hay festival the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories admission over nhs ' underfunding ' farmers ' ' badger cull disaster ' funeral of family after home fire most popular stories now shared read watched / listened webscape brazil 's chinese bikini problem most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened arizona shooting suspect charged virgin ' wo n't pay ' fees over snow undercover officer switches sides how giffords survived the shot fury over doctor 's book on sex education for muslims brazil 's chinese bikini problem pakistan bodyguard admits killing gates expresses chinese concern bangladesh clashes as shares dive ipl cricket auction breaks record most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened 911 tape of arizona shooting released the battle to dominate global aviation one-minute world news close-up : azerbaijan 's oil baths one-minute world news turning body heat into energy undercover officer switches sides kate middleton at friend 's wedding surgeon ' cautiously optimistic ' british wool industry back in fashion most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 97,514 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- coming of age for festival at 21 accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:17 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:17 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coming of age for festival at 21 the festival attracts around 150,000 visitors to mid wales the hay festival is flinging open its doors for the 21st time .
literary , musical and political celebrities will descend on a tented village at hay-on-wye in powys which becomes its temporary home every may .
over the years it has become something of a mecca for not just of the literary kind , but personalities on a global scale .
jimmy carter follows bill clinton on the list of former us presidents who are flying in for the event .
other names include actresses kathleen turner , doctor who 's catherine tate , and author john irving .
from political circles , cherie booth , john prescott and lord levy bring their much talked-about memoirs to hay audiences over the next 11 days .
jimmy carter is the second former us president to speak at hay festival director peter florence admits the event , which is sponsored by the guardian newspaper and sky arts , has grown exponentially since it was dreamt up around a kitchen table in 1987 .
back then there were just six volunteers manning the show .
from thursday there will be 240 people on site managing hundreds of events , night and day .
but florence insists the ethos behind hay has not changed .
" the scale of it has grown but i think the philosophy is still the same , " he said .
" the ideas is still that its something between friends , going to see writers , musicians and politicians during the day , getting together to talk about what you 've seen in the day .
however , he also admits the economic implications of the literary get-together are " startling " .
the festival caters to more than book lovers " in that it 's a multi-million pound thing running as a charity and a social enterprise rather than a business .
it also generates about £ 15m of economic benefits to the community locally " .
jimmy carter 's appearance at hay this sunday is a nod to florence 's " abiding passion with britain 's relationship with america in politics and literature " .
now an elder statesman at 83 , mr carter won the 2002 nobel peace prize and has recently been on visits to the middle east .
another favourite for the director is john irving , writer of possibly florence 's favourite ever book the world according to garp in 1978 .
there is also something of a chess theme going to hay 2008 with gary kasparov talking about his fight standing up for democracy in russia -lrb- saturday 31 may -rrb- while fellow one-time champion boris spassky takes on 20 players simultaneously on sunday 25 may .
atonement writer ian mcewan is also putting on the world premiere of a new opera for you - written with composer michael berkeley - at this year 's festival .
literary tongue hay is not just hay any more though .
it takes on an outreach function with seven satellite festivals , including two in spain and one in columbia , tapping into spanish literature which florence calls the " other great literary tongue " .
this year there is another first a link up with a privately- run prison in south wales .
events in one of the festival venues are being beamed live to parc near bridgend and writers will be visiting inmates there too .
florence is passionate about spreading the literary message wherever he can .
but he says he does not want the festival enterprise to keep on growing .
" we do n't want it to get any bigger .
there 's something about the intimacy and that is very important . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also milton 's mulberry makes a move 18 may 08 -pipe- uk am 's spassky hay chess challenge 10 may 08 -pipe- south west wales related internet links hay festival the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories arrest after man dies tobogganing slate fraudsters to pay £ 250,000 prince laughs off wedding query most popular stories now shared read watched / listened dogs death pc guilty of cruelty man in hiding betrayed by pet dog frog reveals secret of monogamy elephant ' secret language ' clues dozens killed in peru bus crash most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ex-us vice president cheney ill obama unveils new healthcare plan car bomb explodes at courthouse man in hiding betrayed by pet dog tv man gave up dead lover 's name us ' closes in on google hackers ' first superman comic sold for $ 1m odeon confirms wonderland boycott guilty plea in new york bomb plot us-led advance in marjah ' steady ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver israeli-born face deportation israeli drone ' can reach iran ' fresh madeira landslide warning one-minute world news burma 's kachin army set to fight archery lesson for blindfolded prince sky drone ' spots ' taliban bombs close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war strike damage european airlines struggle to polish up their images madeira clean-up unceasing efforts eradicate flood damage most popular now most popular now -pipe- 26,414 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- coming of age for festival at 21 british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:17 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:17 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coming of age for festival at 21 the festival attracts around 150,000 visitors to mid wales the hay festival is flinging open its doors for the 21st time .
literary , musical and political celebrities will descend on a tented village at hay-on-wye in powys which becomes its temporary home every may .
over the years it has become something of a mecca for not just of the literary kind , but personalities on a global scale .
jimmy carter follows bill clinton on the list of former us presidents who are flying in for the event .
other names include actresses kathleen turner , doctor who 's catherine tate , and author john irving .
from political circles , cherie booth , john prescott and lord levy bring their much talked-about memoirs to hay audiences over the next 11 days .
jimmy carter is the second former us president to speak at hay festival director peter florence admits the event , which is sponsored by the guardian newspaper and sky arts , has grown exponentially since it was dreamt up around a kitchen table in 1987 .
back then there were just six volunteers manning the show .
from thursday there will be 240 people on site managing hundreds of events , night and day .
but florence insists the ethos behind hay has not changed .
" the scale of it has grown but i think the philosophy is still the same , " he said .
" the ideas is still that its something between friends , going to see writers , musicians and politicians during the day , getting together to talk about what you 've seen in the day .
however , he also admits the economic implications of the literary get-together are " startling " .
the festival caters to more than book lovers " in that it 's a multi-million pound thing running as a charity and a social enterprise rather than a business .
it also generates about £ 15m of economic benefits to the community locally " .
jimmy carter 's appearance at hay this sunday is a nod to florence 's " abiding passion with britain 's relationship with america in politics and literature " .
now an elder statesman at 83 , mr carter won the 2002 nobel peace prize and has recently been on visits to the middle east .
another favourite for the director is john irving , writer of possibly florence 's favourite ever book the world according to garp in 1978 .
there is also something of a chess theme going to hay 2008 with gary kasparov talking about his fight standing up for democracy in russia -lrb- saturday 31 may -rrb- while fellow one-time champion boris spassky takes on 20 players simultaneously on sunday 25 may .
atonement writer ian mcewan is also putting on the world premiere of a new opera for you - written with composer michael berkeley - at this year 's festival .
literary tongue hay is not just hay any more though .
it takes on an outreach function with seven satellite festivals , including two in spain and one in columbia , tapping into spanish literature which florence calls the " other great literary tongue " .
this year there is another first a link up with a privately- run prison in south wales .
events in one of the festival venues are being beamed live to parc near bridgend and writers will be visiting inmates there too .
florence is passionate about spreading the literary message wherever he can .
but he says he does not want the festival enterprise to keep on growing .
" we do n't want it to get any bigger .
there 's something about the intimacy and that is very important . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also milton 's mulberry makes a move 18 may 08 -pipe- uk am 's spassky hay chess challenge 10 may 08 -pipe- south west wales related internet links hay festival the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories admission over nhs ' underfunding ' farmers ' ' badger cull disaster ' funeral of family after home fire most popular stories now shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' inside castro 's revolutionary hideout hungary country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened fidel castro delivers rare speech enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' adultery case woman attacks iran n zealand beating ' was a dance ' ' medics ' killed in afghanistan mother and daughter , 12 , stabbed ice island breaks from greenland inside castro 's revolutionary hideout saudi blackberry deal ' in sight ' muslims host ' anti-terror ' camp most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened on board the flight that bombed hiroshima castro warning on effects of war race against time in pakistan floods astronauts tackle urgent repair ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' ' jerkin ' street dance sweeps the us flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep five minutes with : hanif kureishi great buddha 's ritual cleaning cargo freighter docks with iss most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 42,014 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- coming of age for festival at 21 british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:17 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:17 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version coming of age for festival at 21 the festival attracts around 150,000 visitors to mid wales the hay festival is flinging open its doors for the 21st time .
literary , musical and political celebrities will descend on a tented village at hay-on-wye in powys which becomes its temporary home every may .
over the years it has become something of a mecca for not just of the literary kind , but personalities on a global scale .
jimmy carter follows bill clinton on the list of former us presidents who are flying in for the event .
other names include actresses kathleen turner , doctor who 's catherine tate , and author john irving .
from political circles , cherie booth , john prescott and lord levy bring their much talked-about memoirs to hay audiences over the next 11 days .
jimmy carter is the second former us president to speak at hay festival director peter florence admits the event , which is sponsored by the guardian newspaper and sky arts , has grown exponentially since it was dreamt up around a kitchen table in 1987 .
back then there were just six volunteers manning the show .
from thursday there will be 240 people on site managing hundreds of events , night and day .
but florence insists the ethos behind hay has not changed .
" the scale of it has grown but i think the philosophy is still the same , " he said .
" the ideas is still that its something between friends , going to see writers , musicians and politicians during the day , getting together to talk about what you 've seen in the day .
however , he also admits the economic implications of the literary get-together are " startling " .
the festival caters to more than book lovers " in that it 's a multi-million pound thing running as a charity and a social enterprise rather than a business .
it also generates about £ 15m of economic benefits to the community locally " .
jimmy carter 's appearance at hay this sunday is a nod to florence 's " abiding passion with britain 's relationship with america in politics and literature " .
now an elder statesman at 83 , mr carter won the 2002 nobel peace prize and has recently been on visits to the middle east .
another favourite for the director is john irving , writer of possibly florence 's favourite ever book the world according to garp in 1978 .
there is also something of a chess theme going to hay 2008 with gary kasparov talking about his fight standing up for democracy in russia -lrb- saturday 31 may -rrb- while fellow one-time champion boris spassky takes on 20 players simultaneously on sunday 25 may .
atonement writer ian mcewan is also putting on the world premiere of a new opera for you - written with composer michael berkeley - at this year 's festival .
literary tongue hay is not just hay any more though .
it takes on an outreach function with seven satellite festivals , including two in spain and one in columbia , tapping into spanish literature which florence calls the " other great literary tongue " .
this year there is another first a link up with a privately- run prison in south wales .
events in one of the festival venues are being beamed live to parc near bridgend and writers will be visiting inmates there too .
florence is passionate about spreading the literary message wherever he can .
but he says he does not want the festival enterprise to keep on growing .
" we do n't want it to get any bigger .
there 's something about the intimacy and that is very important . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also milton 's mulberry makes a move 18 may 08 -pipe- uk am 's spassky hay chess challenge 10 may 08 -pipe- south west wales related internet links hay festival the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories ' slowest ' ambulance 999 response jobs fear in companies house cuts environment body attacks air link most popular stories now shared read watched / listened is that woman pregnant or fat ?
slideshow : the farmer 's day feeling grumpy ' is good for you ' tea ' healthier ' drink than water kingsolver crowned orange winner most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened bp shares plummet on obama fears dna study unlocks jewish diaspora iran dismisses new un sanctions is that woman pregnant or fat ?
girl , six , stabbed in the chest liberals ahead in dutch election mexican father ' killed children ' ' suicide bomb ' at afghan wedding egypt city begins banning smoking ' abuse rife ' in tribal pakistan most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan hollins ' world cup diary : shakira one-minute world news snake found under van 's bonnet world cup warning for sex tourists speed sisters driving west bank change corden in spat with sir patrick bbc investigates iphone complaints african football shorts : the schoolgirl player gulf oil slick viewed from the skies most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis polar extinction ?
popular beer under nationalisation threat in venezuela party time 2010 the fun has begun even before the world cup united in grief uk shootings community remembers victims most popular now most popular now -pipe- 104,000 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- china looks to closer taiwan ties british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:34 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:34 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version china looks to closer taiwan ties the comments came two days after ma ying-jeou took office in taiwan china and taiwan are working to resume dialogue and have a rare opportunity to improve relations , a senior chinese official has said .
in a speech , beijing 's top official for taiwan , chen yunlin , said there had been " major positive changes " in the situation in taiwan .
his comments came two days after a new president took office in taiwan .
ma ying-jeou wants better ties with china and has called for a " new chapter of peace " between the two sides .
his predecessor , chen shui-bian , had angered china with moves towards formal independence , and relations had been severely strained .
' mutual trust ' in a speech reported by xinhua news agency , the chinese official said both sides were working to restart dialogue .
" currently , good developing momentum is emerging in cross-strait relations , bringing a rare and important opportunity , " chen yunlin said .
china respected the " desire of taiwan compatriots to be masters of their own destiny " , he said , but would continue to oppose " splittist activities " .
the two sides should " establish mutual trust , set aside disputes and differences and create a win-win " , he added .
on tuesday ma ying-jeou said that maintaining cross-strait peace and prosperity was his goal .
the 57-year-old comfortably won the presidential election in march on a platform of improving economic ties with china .
but he has ruled out any negotiations on unification with beijing while he is in office .
china says that taiwan is part of its territory , although the two have been separately governed since 1949 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also taiwan 's new leader takes office 20 may 08 -pipe- asia-pacific historic china-taiwan talks held 12 apr 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwanese hope of new china chapter 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwan victor promises china ties 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific choppy waters between china and taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific profile : ma ying-jeou 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific timeline : taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links taiwan flashpoint related internet links taiwan government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' inside castro 's revolutionary hideout most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' huge ice sheet breaks from greenland glacier a glimpse of life inside castro 's revolutionary hideout adultery case woman attacks iran ' medics ' killed in afghanistan shot uk medical worker identified woman shown her own rape on phone n zealand beating ' was a dance ' pakistan on flooding ' red alert ' muslims host ' anti-terror ' camp most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep on board the flight that bombed hiroshima unnamed page unnamed page five minutes with : hanif kureishi ' a catastrophe , no overstatement ' thousands slash ' pirate ' record five minutes with : stephen fry police ' smash pensioner 's car ' ' no choice but to return to nuclear ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 51,343 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- china looks to closer taiwan ties british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:34 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:34 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version china looks to closer taiwan ties the comments came two days after ma ying-jeou took office in taiwan china and taiwan are working to resume dialogue and have a rare opportunity to improve relations , a senior chinese official has said .
in a speech , beijing 's top official for taiwan , chen yunlin , said there had been " major positive changes " in the situation in taiwan .
his comments came two days after a new president took office in taiwan .
ma ying-jeou wants better ties with china and has called for a " new chapter of peace " between the two sides .
his predecessor , chen shui-bian , had angered china with moves towards formal independence , and relations had been severely strained .
' mutual trust ' in a speech reported by xinhua news agency , the chinese official said both sides were working to restart dialogue .
" currently , good developing momentum is emerging in cross-strait relations , bringing a rare and important opportunity , " chen yunlin said .
china respected the " desire of taiwan compatriots to be masters of their own destiny " , he said , but would continue to oppose " splittist activities " .
the two sides should " establish mutual trust , set aside disputes and differences and create a win-win " , he added .
on tuesday ma ying-jeou said that maintaining cross-strait peace and prosperity was his goal .
the 57-year-old comfortably won the presidential election in march on a platform of improving economic ties with china .
but he has ruled out any negotiations on unification with beijing while he is in office .
china says that taiwan is part of its territory , although the two have been separately governed since 1949 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also taiwan 's new leader takes office 20 may 08 -pipe- asia-pacific historic china-taiwan talks held 12 apr 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwanese hope of new china chapter 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwan victor promises china ties 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific choppy waters between china and taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific profile : ma ying-jeou 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific timeline : taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links taiwan flashpoint related internet links taiwan government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened diamonds hint at ' earliest life ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened live : chile mine rescue joy as chile miners reach surface porn studios close over hiv scare the big picture : lightning strike in pictures : first chile miners rescued new nose for taliban victim aisha china elders in free speech plea struggling to find love in latvia china-brazil match ends in brawl lebanon crowds cheer ahmadinejad most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened first chile miner rescued after 69 days serbian fans arrested after euro qualifier match first rescuer reaches mine second chile miner 's euphoria at surface one-minute world news 69 days : the miners ' long wait discovering a different side to mombasa one-minute world news snakes found near commonwealth village iranian president cheered in beirut most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 151,914 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links merlin strictly full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- china looks to closer taiwan ties accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:34 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:34 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version china looks to closer taiwan ties the comments came two days after ma ying-jeou took office in taiwan china and taiwan are working to resume dialogue and have a rare opportunity to improve relations , a senior chinese official has said .
in a speech , beijing 's top official for taiwan , chen yunlin , said there had been " major positive changes " in the situation in taiwan .
his comments came two days after a new president took office in taiwan .
ma ying-jeou wants better ties with china and has called for a " new chapter of peace " between the two sides .
his predecessor , chen shui-bian , had angered china with moves towards formal independence , and relations had been severely strained .
' mutual trust ' in a speech reported by xinhua news agency , the chinese official said both sides were working to restart dialogue .
" currently , good developing momentum is emerging in cross-strait relations , bringing a rare and important opportunity , " chen yunlin said .
china respected the " desire of taiwan compatriots to be masters of their own destiny " , he said , but would continue to oppose " splittist activities " .
the two sides should " establish mutual trust , set aside disputes and differences and create a win-win " , he added .
on tuesday ma ying-jeou said that maintaining cross-strait peace and prosperity was his goal .
the 57-year-old comfortably won the presidential election in march on a platform of improving economic ties with china .
but he has ruled out any negotiations on unification with beijing while he is in office .
china says that taiwan is part of its territory , although the two have been separately governed since 1949 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also taiwan 's new leader takes office 20 may 08 -pipe- asia-pacific historic china-taiwan talks held 12 apr 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwanese hope of new china chapter 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwan victor promises china ties 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific choppy waters between china and taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific profile : ma ying-jeou 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific timeline : taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links taiwan flashpoint related internet links taiwan government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories leading chinese dissident jailed fears grow for hmong in thailand japan pm sorry over funds scandal most popular stories now shared read watched / listened two more catholic bishops resign scientists ' decode ' memory making anger over hunting rights india firms ' count facebook cost ' in pictures : hmong evictions in thailand most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened pope gives address after assault taliban video ' shows us soldier ' woman knocks pope down at mass two more catholic bishops resign holiday blizzards hit central us having a laugh in india hp camera ' ca n't see ' black faces ' switch ' could block huntington 's white christmas for parts of uk in pictures : us midwest snowstorms most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened the moment the pope was knocked down footage of pope attack woman in 2008 no white christmas on bondi beach barack obama gives christmas message taliban video ' shows us soldier ' one-minute world news man profits from christmas decorating us soldier in hostage video christmas around the world pope gives address after assault most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis having a laugh the pitfalls of making comedy work in india in pictures snowstorms bring chaos for millions in us midwest dangerous waste lebanese city in the shadow of a mountain of rubbish most popular now most popular now -pipe- 33,514 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- china looks to closer taiwan ties accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:34 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:34 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version china looks to closer taiwan ties the comments came two days after ma ying-jeou took office in taiwan china and taiwan are working to resume dialogue and have a rare opportunity to improve relations , a senior chinese official has said .
in a speech , beijing 's top official for taiwan , chen yunlin , said there had been " major positive changes " in the situation in taiwan .
his comments came two days after a new president took office in taiwan .
ma ying-jeou wants better ties with china and has called for a " new chapter of peace " between the two sides .
his predecessor , chen shui-bian , had angered china with moves towards formal independence , and relations had been severely strained .
' mutual trust ' in a speech reported by xinhua news agency , the chinese official said both sides were working to restart dialogue .
" currently , good developing momentum is emerging in cross-strait relations , bringing a rare and important opportunity , " chen yunlin said .
china respected the " desire of taiwan compatriots to be masters of their own destiny " , he said , but would continue to oppose " splittist activities " .
the two sides should " establish mutual trust , set aside disputes and differences and create a win-win " , he added .
on tuesday ma ying-jeou said that maintaining cross-strait peace and prosperity was his goal .
the 57-year-old comfortably won the presidential election in march on a platform of improving economic ties with china .
but he has ruled out any negotiations on unification with beijing while he is in office .
china says that taiwan is part of its territory , although the two have been separately governed since 1949 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also taiwan 's new leader takes office 20 may 08 -pipe- asia-pacific historic china-taiwan talks held 12 apr 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwanese hope of new china chapter 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwan victor promises china ties 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific choppy waters between china and taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific profile : ma ying-jeou 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific timeline : taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links taiwan flashpoint related internet links taiwan government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories obama discusses rights in china australia ' sorry ' for child abuse burma 's suu kyi calls for talks most popular stories now shared read watched / listened us books returned 50 years late senegal colossus proves sore point one-minute world news gut disorder ' blamed on leaks ' warning for online money mules most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened the child of auschwitz 's kommandant belle de jour drops her anonymity australia ' sorry ' for child abuse deep-sea fish captured on camera obama discusses rights in china adjusting to life after death row egypt launches arabic web domain us books returned 50 years late mozambique police ' kill freely ' senegal colossus proves sore point most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened china visit sparks obama mania one-minute world news the pain of a ' forgotten australian ' deepest ever live fish filmed madoff auction raises $ 1m man drives $ 1m bugatti into marsh praise for child migrants ' spirit plane crashes into vip lounge stormy gales batter the uk ' obama ' the musical most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis about my father he ran auschwitz but was no typical ' bad guy ' nazi sore point ?
senegal fury at president 's plans to profit from statue from bbc sport > > in pictures memorial to german goalie robert enke most popular now most popular now -pipe- 42,600 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- china looks to closer taiwan ties british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:34 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:34 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version china looks to closer taiwan ties the comments came two days after ma ying-jeou took office in taiwan china and taiwan are working to resume dialogue and have a rare opportunity to improve relations , a senior chinese official has said .
in a speech , beijing 's top official for taiwan , chen yunlin , said there had been " major positive changes " in the situation in taiwan .
his comments came two days after a new president took office in taiwan .
ma ying-jeou wants better ties with china and has called for a " new chapter of peace " between the two sides .
his predecessor , chen shui-bian , had angered china with moves towards formal independence , and relations had been severely strained .
' mutual trust ' in a speech reported by xinhua news agency , the chinese official said both sides were working to restart dialogue .
" currently , good developing momentum is emerging in cross-strait relations , bringing a rare and important opportunity , " chen yunlin said .
china respected the " desire of taiwan compatriots to be masters of their own destiny " , he said , but would continue to oppose " splittist activities " .
the two sides should " establish mutual trust , set aside disputes and differences and create a win-win " , he added .
on tuesday ma ying-jeou said that maintaining cross-strait peace and prosperity was his goal .
the 57-year-old comfortably won the presidential election in march on a platform of improving economic ties with china .
but he has ruled out any negotiations on unification with beijing while he is in office .
china says that taiwan is part of its territory , although the two have been separately governed since 1949 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also taiwan 's new leader takes office 20 may 08 -pipe- asia-pacific historic china-taiwan talks held 12 apr 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwanese hope of new china chapter 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwan victor promises china ties 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific choppy waters between china and taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific profile : ma ying-jeou 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific timeline : taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links taiwan flashpoint related internet links taiwan government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites most popular stories now shared read watched / listened sri lanka country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened renault warns of threat to assets hackers uncover secret ps3 keys cost cuts ' led to bp oil spill ' starbucks unveils revamped logo passengers thwart turkish hijack hogan to sue australia government chinese children poisoned by lead microsoft uses mobile phone chips aide ' cleaned ' jackson death room haiti warned over rape in camps most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened chemical plant fire in holland one-minute world news reporter threatened at gunpoint will this ship revolutionise the skies ?
oil spill a ' failure of management ' sketching courtroom dramas canadian girl discovers supernova air passengers thwart hijack attempt innocent man freed after 30 years tablets , phones and chargers at ces most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 135,143 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- china looks to closer taiwan ties british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:34 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:34 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version china looks to closer taiwan ties the comments came two days after ma ying-jeou took office in taiwan china and taiwan are working to resume dialogue and have a rare opportunity to improve relations , a senior chinese official has said .
in a speech , beijing 's top official for taiwan , chen yunlin , said there had been " major positive changes " in the situation in taiwan .
his comments came two days after a new president took office in taiwan .
ma ying-jeou wants better ties with china and has called for a " new chapter of peace " between the two sides .
his predecessor , chen shui-bian , had angered china with moves towards formal independence , and relations had been severely strained .
' mutual trust ' in a speech reported by xinhua news agency , the chinese official said both sides were working to restart dialogue .
" currently , good developing momentum is emerging in cross-strait relations , bringing a rare and important opportunity , " chen yunlin said .
china respected the " desire of taiwan compatriots to be masters of their own destiny " , he said , but would continue to oppose " splittist activities " .
the two sides should " establish mutual trust , set aside disputes and differences and create a win-win " , he added .
on tuesday ma ying-jeou said that maintaining cross-strait peace and prosperity was his goal .
the 57-year-old comfortably won the presidential election in march on a platform of improving economic ties with china .
but he has ruled out any negotiations on unification with beijing while he is in office .
china says that taiwan is part of its territory , although the two have been separately governed since 1949 .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also taiwan 's new leader takes office 20 may 08 -pipe- asia-pacific historic china-taiwan talks held 12 apr 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwanese hope of new china chapter 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific taiwan victor promises china ties 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific choppy waters between china and taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific profile : ma ying-jeou 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific timeline : taiwan 22 mar 08 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links taiwan flashpoint related internet links taiwan government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened benin tanker explosion kills 54 why flying with children is no picnic nz judge orders ' odd ' name change most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened boy named hitler to stay in care mandela aide ' got campbell gems ' france starts removing roma camps japan ship damage ' was terrorism ' nz judge orders ' odd ' name change pakistan 's flooding sweeps south blackberry ' ban ' in saudi arabia us sees 131,000 jobs lost in july pakistan bond ' unbreakable ' - pm lockerbie bomber cancer ' no fake ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep one-minute world news wyclef on his presidential ambitions ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' wine vending machines launch in us police ' smash pensioner 's car ' monty python team caught in early home movie cameron and zardari ' enhance partnership ' urban farming bid to revive detroit ' a catastrophe , no overstatement ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 77,343 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- china looks to closer taiwan ties bbc news / asia-pacific graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- 06:34 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:34 uk china looks to closer taiwan ties china and taiwan are working to resume dialogue and have a rare opportunity to improve relations , a senior chinese official has said .
in a speech , beijing 's top official for taiwan , chen yunlin , said there had been " major positive changes " in the situation in taiwan .
his comments came two days after a new president took office in taiwan .
ma ying-jeou wants better ties with china and has called for a " new chapter of peace " between the two sides .
his predecessor , chen shui-bian , had angered china with moves towards formal independence , and relations had been severely strained .
' mutual trust ' in a speech reported by xinhua news agency , the chinese official said both sides were working to restart dialogue .
" currently , good developing momentum is emerging in cross-strait relations , bringing a rare and important opportunity , " chen yunlin said .
china respected the " desire of taiwan compatriots to be masters of their own destiny " , he said , but would continue to oppose " splittist activities " .
the two sides should " establish mutual trust , set aside disputes and differences and create a win-win " , he added .
on tuesday ma ying-jeou said that maintaining cross-strait peace and prosperity was his goal .
the 57-year-old comfortably won the presidential election in march on a platform of improving economic ties with china .
but he has ruled out any negotiations on unification with beijing while he is in office .
china says that taiwan is part of its territory , although the two have been separately governed since 1949 .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : taiwan 's new leader takes office -lrb- 20 may 08 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- historic china-taiwan talks held -lrb- 12 apr 08 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- taiwanese hope of new china chapter -lrb- 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- taiwan victor promises china ties -lrb- 23 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- choppy waters between china and taiwan -lrb- 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- profile : ma ying-jeou -lrb- 22 mar 08 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- timeline : taiwan -lrb- 22 mar 08 -pipe- country profiles -rrb- related internet links taiwan flashpoint taiwan government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- 6,400 domestic attacks in a year accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:47 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:47 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version 6,400 domestic attacks in a year police were called to 6,389 domestic violence incidents last year police attended almost 6,400 domestic violence incidents in northern ireland last year .
the figure was revealed as the policing board announced an inquiry into the effectiveness of the psni in tackling domestic violence against women .
police responded to more than 23,000 domestic incidents in 2007-2008 , 6,389 of a violent nature .
assembly and policing board member basil mccrea said it showed domestic violence was an endemic problem .
" the majority of victims of domestic violence are women and this is core policing business , " he said .
" it is therefore important and proper that the policing board monitor the psni 's approach to tackling domestic violence against women as part of an overall framework . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
top northern ireland stories car bomb explodes at courthouse man held over ' rape ' at town bar petrol bombs thrown at city house most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man in hiding betrayed by pet dog dogs death pc guilty of cruelty frog reveals secret of monogamy record snowfall blankets moscow two fall 750ft in lakes avalanche most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan car bomb explodes at courthouse man in hiding betrayed by pet dog odeon confirms wonderland boycott tv man gave up dead lover 's name us ' closes in on google hackers ' ex-us vice president cheney ill guilty plea in new york bomb plot first superman comic sold for $ 1m dozens killed in peru bus crash most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver one-minute world news burma 's kachin army set to fight israeli-born face deportation portugal to mourn madeira victims father on false paedophilia facebook posts close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music israeli drone ' can reach iran ' archery lesson for blindfolded prince most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war strike damage european airlines struggle to polish up their images earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers most popular now most popular now -pipe- 22,786 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- 6,400 domestic attacks in a year british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:47 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:47 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version 6,400 domestic attacks in a year police were called to 6,389 domestic violence incidents last year police attended almost 6,400 domestic violence incidents in northern ireland last year .
the figure was revealed as the policing board announced an inquiry into the effectiveness of the psni in tackling domestic violence against women .
police responded to more than 23,000 domestic incidents in 2007-2008 , 6,389 of a violent nature .
assembly and policing board member basil mccrea said it showed domestic violence was an endemic problem .
" the majority of victims of domestic violence are women and this is core policing business , " he said .
" it is therefore important and proper that the policing board monitor the psni 's approach to tackling domestic violence against women as part of an overall framework . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened defecating dog sparks us shootout us priests in sex abuse pay-out leaving ukraine most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libya rebels ' recapture key town ' radioactive levels rise by plant us beauty queen wins ' fat ' case defecating dog sparks us shootout libya : explosions shake tripoli the muammar gaddafi story live : libya crisis us priests in sex abuse pay-out the bizarre world of time zones protests spread in syrian cities most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened rebels battle to control ajdabiya at the scene of a libya missile strike raf tornados strike libyan tank targets one-minute world news african union ' ignored ' over libya crisis about time : the science of time protests spread across syrian cities inside japan 's nuclear exclusion zone no food or water for 70 years ?
the moment tsunami hit miyako city most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 63,571 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- 6,400 domestic attacks in a year british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:47 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:47 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version 6,400 domestic attacks in a year police were called to 6,389 domestic violence incidents last year police attended almost 6,400 domestic violence incidents in northern ireland last year .
the figure was revealed as the policing board announced an inquiry into the effectiveness of the psni in tackling domestic violence against women .
police responded to more than 23,000 domestic incidents in 2007-2008 , 6,389 of a violent nature .
assembly and policing board member basil mccrea said it showed domestic violence was an endemic problem .
" the majority of victims of domestic violence are women and this is core policing business , " he said .
" it is therefore important and proper that the policing board monitor the psni 's approach to tackling domestic violence against women as part of an overall framework . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened ' fifteen year ' potholes backlog most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened arizona shooting suspect charged virgin ' wo n't pay ' fees over snow how giffords survived the shot brazil 's chinese bikini problem fury over doctor 's book on sex education for muslims undercover officer switches sides ipl cricket auction breaks record gates expresses chinese concern scores killed in iran plane crash obama hails south sudanese vote most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened 911 tape of arizona shooting released one-minute world news one-minute world news surgeon ' cautiously optimistic ' clooney on his commitment to sudan loughner tackled by wounded woman examining the political fallout from arizona shooting ' gadget cars ' make their debut in las vegas rising costs food prices spark voilent protests in tunisia witches threaten romanian taxman most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 83,700 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- 6,400 domestic attacks in a year accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:47 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:47 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version 6,400 domestic attacks in a year police were called to 6,389 domestic violence incidents last year police attended almost 6,400 domestic violence incidents in northern ireland last year .
the figure was revealed as the policing board announced an inquiry into the effectiveness of the psni in tackling domestic violence against women .
police responded to more than 23,000 domestic incidents in 2007-2008 , 6,389 of a violent nature .
assembly and policing board member basil mccrea said it showed domestic violence was an endemic problem .
" the majority of victims of domestic violence are women and this is core policing business , " he said .
" it is therefore important and proper that the policing board monitor the psni 's approach to tackling domestic violence against women as part of an overall framework . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
top northern ireland stories lorry fires closes m1 motorway assault ' sectarian hate crime ' book of condolence for gerry ryan most popular stories now shared read watched / listened fat americans a ' security threat ' us backs statin use for children sierra leone gives new hope to mothers and children stag party rescue after lift fall israeli man is kidnapped in ghana most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' weather hampers us oil clean-up fat americans a ' security threat ' hundreds strip off in lowry shoot us protests over immigration law escort girl claims cast cloud over french football in pictures : may day rallies bolivia takes over energy firms protesters confront greek police pope to overhaul abuse-hit order most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened nudes pose at irish castle nude volunteers pose for art shoot ' spill threatens our way of life ' naked crowd gathers for climate change nissan shows off prototype electric car leaf arizona immigration law protests made in taiwan : ' bigotgate ' hundreds strip at football stadium greek riot police clash with protesters one-minute world news most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis phew ! to brew how cow dung and rotting meat make top cuppa in india elusive peace fearful times as militants regroup in swat valley blow the whistle call-girl 's claims cast cloud over french football most popular now most popular now -pipe- 26,914 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who election 2010 formula 1 a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- 6,400 domestic attacks in a year accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:47 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:47 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version 6,400 domestic attacks in a year police were called to 6,389 domestic violence incidents last year police attended almost 6,400 domestic violence incidents in northern ireland last year .
the figure was revealed as the policing board announced an inquiry into the effectiveness of the psni in tackling domestic violence against women .
police responded to more than 23,000 domestic incidents in 2007-2008 , 6,389 of a violent nature .
assembly and policing board member basil mccrea said it showed domestic violence was an endemic problem .
" the majority of victims of domestic violence are women and this is core policing business , " he said .
" it is therefore important and proper that the policing board monitor the psni 's approach to tackling domestic violence against women as part of an overall framework . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
top northern ireland stories uda set to confirm weapons dumped mp faces copyright breach claims further warning over icy weather most popular stories now shared read watched / listened is this the world 's smartest dog ?
condoms ' too big ' for indian men china sued by us software company snow disrupts schools and travel g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened snow disrupts schools and travel japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat pornographic videos flood youtube obama given intelligence pledge pi calculated to ' record number ' ex-ministers demand brown ballot stallone injured in fight scenes bbc news - in pictures : uk ' deep freeze ' spreads airport explosive plant goes awry google phone to protect ad empire most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened is this the world 's smartest dog ?
us state reviews shackling laws swiss avalanche death toll rises runaway pig sparks road chase view from the top of world 's tallest building viewers ' videos of snow scenes porn videos floods youtube chinese help for sri lankan port one-minute world news google unveils nexus one handset most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland empire protection why google needs a new mobile phone most popular now most popular now -pipe- 199,386 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- 6,400 domestic attacks in a year british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news at ten news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:47 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:47 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version 6,400 domestic attacks in a year police were called to 6,389 domestic violence incidents last year police attended almost 6,400 domestic violence incidents in northern ireland last year .
the figure was revealed as the policing board announced an inquiry into the effectiveness of the psni in tackling domestic violence against women .
police responded to more than 23,000 domestic incidents in 2007-2008 , 6,389 of a violent nature .
assembly and policing board member basil mccrea said it showed domestic violence was an endemic problem .
" the majority of victims of domestic violence are women and this is core policing business , " he said .
" it is therefore important and proper that the policing board monitor the psni 's approach to tackling domestic violence against women as part of an overall framework . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened scan uncovers 40 smuggled snakes most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened gaddafi forces push rebels back live : libya and mid-east crisis ivorian fighters ' take capital ' japan to scrap stricken reactors syria vows to prevail over ' plot ' joy and despair after cricket epic libyan minister ' visiting london ' cup semi grips india and pakistan jordan in christian relics row royal weddings of the past most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news one-minute world news reagan ' a fetish object for the far right ' would arming libyan rebels help ?
bbc reporter on the frontlines in libya noisy trousers create jeans beat security tight at cricket world cup jean drum kit wins national prize boy , 8 , gets a in a-level maths syria vows victory over ' plot ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 87,271 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- 6,400 domestic attacks in a year british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:47 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:47 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version 6,400 domestic attacks in a year police were called to 6,389 domestic violence incidents last year police attended almost 6,400 domestic violence incidents in northern ireland last year .
the figure was revealed as the policing board announced an inquiry into the effectiveness of the psni in tackling domestic violence against women .
police responded to more than 23,000 domestic incidents in 2007-2008 , 6,389 of a violent nature .
assembly and policing board member basil mccrea said it showed domestic violence was an endemic problem .
" the majority of victims of domestic violence are women and this is core policing business , " he said .
" it is therefore important and proper that the policing board monitor the psni 's approach to tackling domestic violence against women as part of an overall framework . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened lab-grown urethra ' world first ' honduras country profile going to harvard from your own bedroom yemeni general backs opposition most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened live : libya crisis gaddafi ' not targeted ' by strikes russian leaders spar over libya japan will overcome crisis - iaea us sorry for afghan corpse photos yemeni general backs opposition china blamed for gmail disruption hobbit filming finally under way drones ' winning ' war against al-qaeda thousands ' join ivory coast army ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news gaddafi building damaged by missile one-minute world news coalition targets pro-gaddafi forces richards : ' targeting gaddafi not allowed ' new footage : japan tsunami at sea new libya violence evidence emerges libya : what are coalition 's aims ?
tsunami floodgate ' did not work ' the moment tsunami hit miyako city most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 89,757 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- 6,400 domestic attacks in a year british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:47 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:47 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version 6,400 domestic attacks in a year police were called to 6,389 domestic violence incidents last year police attended almost 6,400 domestic violence incidents in northern ireland last year .
the figure was revealed as the policing board announced an inquiry into the effectiveness of the psni in tackling domestic violence against women .
police responded to more than 23,000 domestic incidents in 2007-2008 , 6,389 of a violent nature .
assembly and policing board member basil mccrea said it showed domestic violence was an endemic problem .
" the majority of victims of domestic violence are women and this is core policing business , " he said .
" it is therefore important and proper that the policing board monitor the psni 's approach to tackling domestic violence against women as part of an overall framework . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now shared read watched / listened rwanda : how the genocide happened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened bp due to publish oil leak report church defiant over koran stunt good dancing link to male health beware the ' do n't know ' brigade ex-rangers player in cancer fight castro criticises iranian leader european police in pirate raids day in pictures cameron to miss pm 's questions autocracy fear as sri lanka votes most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened good and bad dancing put to test one-minute world news katie holmes on tom cruise religious leaders unite against koran burning belgian pm on eurozone integration pressure mounts against koran burning jolie praise for pakistan military trapped miners watch football match putin weighing up presidency bid what happens when food rots ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 122,257 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links battle of britain pakistan floods full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- 6,400 domestic attacks in a year bbc news / northern ireland graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 06:47 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:47 uk 6,400 domestic attacks in a year police attended almost 6,400 domestic violence incidents in northern ireland last year .
the figure was revealed as the policing board announced an inquiry into the effectiveness of the psni in tackling domestic violence against women .
police responded to more than 23,000 domestic incidents in 2007-2008 , 6,389 of a violent nature .
assembly and policing board member basil mccrea said it showed domestic violence was an endemic problem .
" the majority of victims of domestic violence are women and this is core policing business , " he said .
" it is therefore important and proper that the policing board monitor the psni 's approach to tackling domestic violence against women as part of an overall framework . "
e-mail this to a friend search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories met officers face assault charges mother and daughter found killed burst water main hits west london most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened iran stoning woman ' confesses ' australian looking for girl finds body after ' dream ' singer michael charged over drugs day in pictures meteor spectacle ' set to dazzle ' man grows pea plant inside lung brazil to record ufo sightings colombian capital rocked by blast dying girl photographs criticised iraq ' not ready ' for us pull-out most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened saudi women photograph their world uk teenager finds fame in japan woman starts fight over chicken nuggets iran stoning woman ' confesses ' women dice with death on m6 one-minute world news how a tragedy unfolded in pakistan aerial video shows portugal fires open-air swimming plus the great migration moscow deaths soar amid heatwave most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 102,729 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories controversial brent councillor goes solo age limit restricts 2012 helpers error leads to new ballot papers most popular stories now shared read watched / listened fat americans a ' security threat ' bp under fire over us oil spill the virginity industry prostate cancer vaccine approved your pictures of scotland : 23 april - 30 april most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened weather hampers us oil clean-up hundreds strip off in lowry shoot plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' fat americans a ' security threat ' ' bigot ' row woman will not vote escort girl claims cast cloud over french football in pictures : may day rallies protesters confront greek police rwandan leader snubs us lawsuit bp under fire over us oil spill most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened nude volunteers pose for art shoot inmates could help oil clean-up alaska 's tallest structure demolished greek riot police clash with protesters naked crowd gathers for climate change nudes pose at irish castle five minutes with : amy williams brown tells paxman why he called duffy ' bigoted ' one-minute world news fresh protests hit greece most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis elusive peace fearful times as militants regroup in swat valley blow the whistle call-girl 's claims cast cloud over french football in pictures demonstrators mark may day around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 47,743 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who election 2010 formula 1 a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories man found guilty of club murder london flooding damage assessed runaway train on london tube line most popular stories now shared read watched / listened halal holidays in the sun most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened runaway train on london tube line germany in ' record ' 2.2 % growth teenage girl raped in city centre swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty chinese set human domino record day in pictures : 13 august 2010 are picky eaters ' genes to blame ?
pakistan curbs independence day bodies found in south africa mine meteors still set for ' good show ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened record dominoes toppled in one go plane rolls into sea in brazil one-minute world news devastating power of china floods chinese set human domino record how to get a grip on your inbox timelapse footage of night sky china milk causing ' early puberty ' blue peter 's mattress record china 's deadly landslides most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 63,514 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories murdered woman 's hand was cut off oyster roll-out ' early next year ' n-dubz pair to help rape inquiry most popular stories now shared read watched / listened age of cyber warfare is ' dawning ' meditation ' eases heart disease ' tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' two kite surfers jump over pier man killed wife ' during a dream ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened age of cyber warfare is ' dawning ' man killed wife ' during a dream ' ' ex nazi ' charged with 58 murders two kite surfers jump over pier taliban leader ' flees pakistan ' tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' israel approves 900 settler homes obama 's message censored in china somali pirates free spanish boat ' female viagra ' discovery claim most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened conjoined twins op ' successful ' tour of world 's fastest steam car army 's new night vision equipment antarctic ice traps cruise ship cctv of raid before fatal crash world domino record set on tv mexico 's most dangerous city one-minute world news scott-heron back with new album mexico battles drugs and corruption most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis centre stage how the velvet revolution was led from a theatre censored china uses media to control obama coverage tech solutions ?
how technology could help us limit climate change most popular now most popular now -pipe- 86,700 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories luxury jewellery stolen in raid collapsed sewer closes ring-road fallen remembered on vj day most popular stories now shared read watched / listened living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars bhutan 's happiness formula follow a fiver - from production to destruction most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened japan economic growth slows down ban shocked by pakistan flooding spectators killed at us car race craigslist ' killer ' dies in jail is ' grandpa wen ' as nice as he seems ?
diana dors roadster goes for $ 3m superheroes ' poor role models ' man , 19 , raped in county tyrone red cap killing charges dropped ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened un chief 's sorrow at pakistan crisis one-minute world news obama takes a dip in gulf waters un chief shocked by pakistan flooding increase in abandoned kittens spectators killed at us car race how to get a grip on your email inbox new york ' puckers up for peace ' marina and the diamonds at the ã ˜ ya festival women dice with death on m6 most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 17,243 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories mother and daughter found killed met officers face assault charges trio abseil big ben for repairs most popular stories now shared read watched / listened turkey country profile return to ' last great wilderness ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened peru battles killer vampire bats swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty chinese ' infant breasts ' inquiry home computers discover rare star woman banned from all sainsbury 's india sets deadline on blackberry moscow ' hiding heatstroke cases ' fears over £ 65bn ' nhs mortgage ' many stuck as travel firm folds france condemns officer in togo most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened scanner uncovers river 's mystery objects pakistan 's floods from the air massive tidal turbine unveiled how a tragedy unfolded in pakistan full flash video on phones young thief caught on camera ' fake fishermen ' claiming oil spill compensation china landslide death toll jumps uk teenager finds fame in japan aerial video shows portugal fires most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 22,486 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories special pcs in train death probe man in court over mother 's murder family stabbing witness appeal most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nairobi bikers improve their own slum most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened four killed in ny state shooting diana dors sports car to be sold obama plea for gulf coast tourism iraqi asylum seekers struggle to survive in sweden jewel gang ' thief ' sent to japan rise of the mamils -lrb- middle-aged men in lycra -rrb- nairobi bikers improve their own slum ' pakistan drone strike kills 12 ' sun 's ' quiet period ' explained klm holds out on ash compensation most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened cctv of ' air steward 's emergency exit ' ranger narrowly escapes crocodile women dice with death on m6 how to get a grip on your inbox obama vows to ' restore ' gulf coast one-minute world news ' a disaster of epic proportions ' life on the edge : korogocho 's biker boys ' mafia croc ' seized by italy police bollywood superstars most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 30,771 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened defecating dog sparks us shootout a new way to look at radiation sa ' mugger ' baboon to be put down the muammar gaddafi story most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan rebels recapture key town sea radioactive near japan plant thousands begin anti-cuts march live : libya and mid-east crisis us beauty queen wins ' fat ' case sian officers find human remains scan uncovers 40 smuggled snakes yemen leader ' negotiating exit ' gaddafi may seek revenge - clarke the muammar gaddafi story most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened libyan rebels ' recapture ' ajdabiya thousands turn out for anti-cuts march one-minute world news the sxsw geeks who love to tinker rooms for rent on royal wedding day tsunami victims vow never to return snow hampers japan aid effort more us forces head to the med viewing the spectacular northern lights ' there is an alternative ' , says balls most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 78,700 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories tomlinson post-mortem report held the xx take mercury music prize tube strike ends after 24 hours most popular stories now shared read watched / listened webscape most believe ' retirement is over ' soros doubles investment in gold how earthquakes happen most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened church defiant over koran stunt afghan dancing boys sexually abused good dancing link to male health un ' failed ' dr congo rape victims wwii mass grave found in slovenia powerful tremor rattles nz city suicides cost japan economy $ 32bn pension rallies hit french cities american soldiers killed in iraq petraeus warns over koran burning most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened good and bad dancing put to test angelina jolie visits pakistan what makes a good dancer ?
putin weighing up presidency bid 10m hedge incurs neighbours ' wrath trapped miners watch football match taliban disguised as us troops british schoolboy ' next picasso ' religious leaders unite against koran burning savvy tourists bag dubai ramadan deals most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 20,771 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links battle of britain pakistan floods full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened lab-grown urethra ' world first ' full face transplant for us man daniel o 'donnell breaks uk chart record for album sales hobbit filming finally under way most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened tripoli targeted for third night new smoke seen at japan reactor physics predicts end of religion live : libya crisis what chance of a ' big one ' in tokyo ?
full face transplant for us man israel launches gaza air strikes russian leaders spar over libya libya no-fly zone : coalition firepower hobbit filming finally under way most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened first full face transplant in us libya : gaddafi 's war of words raf typhoon jets head to libya tsunami children hunt for parents the moment tsunami hit miyako city footage of moment tsunami hit japan chocolate , beer and coffee in lviv do uk public support libya action ?
new footage : japan tsunami at sea gaddafi 's ' letters ' to obama and others most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 31,229 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories teen murder ' witnessed by many ' man denies double murder ambulance service under scrutiny most popular stories now shared read watched / listened playful filipino names hard to get used to taking space travel to the masses how has adele become so successful ?
most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened area of japan evacuation queried libya foreign minister ' defects ' gorbachev 's eclectic london birthday bash taking space travel to the masses guard arrested near 2012 stadium ivorian fighters ' take capital ' joy and despair after cricket epic the art of the perfect prank libyan army adopts rebel tactics sarkozy in china for g20 summit most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened bbc reporter on the frontlines in libya joy and despair after cricket epic noisy trousers create jeans beat reagan ' a fetish object for the far right ' inside the virgin galactic spaceship spaceship flight is ' exhilarating ' one-minute world news libya : air strikes will continue , says us stars turn out for gorbachev event doubts over arming libyan rebels most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 26,714 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories london poised for heavy snowfall guard ' planned ' fatal store raid tfl ' wasted ' £ 20m on tube access most popular stories now shared read watched / listened g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' two killer whale types identified india 's bharti targets bangladesh view from the top of world 's tallest building most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened schools closed as blizzards hit australia downplays india warning pornographic videos flood youtube obama secures intelligence pledge china sued by us software company google phone to protect ad empire plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' in pictures : bird 's nest winter wonderland g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' cia killings a major blow to us most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened runaway pig sparks road chase one-minute world news porn videos floods youtube view from the top of world 's tallest building google unveils nexus one handset viewers ' videos of snow scenes chinese train stuck in snowdrift china 's sparkling ice festival argentine teenagers run radio station ' naked ' scanner in airport trial most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland major blow cia ' triple agent ' killing embarrases us and jordan most popular now most popular now -pipe- 63,100 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version olympic stadium work starts early the olympic stadium will be the centrepiece of the games building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ? 2012 london olympics latest news wembley arena gets 2012 go-ahead bonuses of £ 1.8m for 2012 staff london told to choose 2012 venues games lanes ' may slow ambulances ' olympic land budget 's £ 159m hole olympics ' could be shown in 3d ' features and analysis from bbc sport > > olympics venue guide clickable guide to all the sites for the london games adrian warner 's blog jobs boost ?
beijing - a hard act to follow ? 1948 olympians offer advice mascot masterclass on site at the 2012 stadium in pictures olympic stadium unveiled in-depth report bbc sport bbc london related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top london stories luxury jewellery stolen in raid traffic-free route for cyclists prince to lead tributes on vj day most popular stories now shared read watched / listened country profile : india most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened spectators killed at us car race ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam un urges speedy aid for pakistan russia ban on grain export begins childhood stress ' causes illness ' lebanon ' kills militant leader ' horrors faced by ' forgotten army ' iraqis cleared of red cap deaths luxury jewellery stolen in raid taliban targets : women , children , foreigners most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened spectators killed at us car race jerusalem projection draws tourists brazil wildfires threaten homes and national parks how to get a grip on your inbox carmaker morgan unveils eva gt bbc news headlines un chief ban ki-moon urges speedy pakistan aid new york ' puckers up for peace ' ethiopia 's ancient rock churches marina and the diamonds at the ã ˜ ya festival most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 60,800 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- london -pipe- olympic stadium work starts early bbc news / london graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 06:55 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:55 uk olympic stadium work starts early building work is beginning on london 's £ 496m olympic stadium , three months ahead of schedule .
the 80,000-seat stadium in stratford , east london , will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2012 games , as well as athletics events .
once the olympics are over it will become a 25,000-seat community venue .
the construction work coincides with the end of a three-day visit by the international olympic committee 's -lrb- ioc -rrb- monitoring team .
the building operation was due to start in august but work to clear the site in lea valley progressed more quickly than expected .
contaminated soil the olympic delivery authority -lrb- oda -rrb- said 800,000 tonnes of contaminated soil had been removed since clearing began in july 2007 .
the first phase of construction will see 4,000 concrete columns inserted into the soil to form the permanent foundations for the stadium structure .
building firm sir robert mcalpine will then install floor slabs , lower tier structures and columns to support the pedestrian concourse level .
early next year , the erection of steel structures to support the stadium roof will start .
the stadium is due for completion in 2011 .
after the games the stadium could also become home to a lower league football or rugby club .
during its visit , the ioc asked london 2012 organisers for assurances over the progress of its athletes ' village .
only one firm , australian constructor lend lease , has bid to build the village and the oda admitted the " challenging " global economic climate made agreeing a final contract more difficult .
however , it insisted work on the village would start next month .
e-mail this to a friend related internet links international olympics committee olympic delivery authority department for culture , media and sport the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- party faithful on conference trail bbc news / scotland graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 06:56 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:56 uk party faithful on conference trail hundreds of scottish conservative party members will attend their party 's annual conference in ayr .
but who will be at the gathering and why ?
two scottish tory foot soldiers , miles briggs and stephanie fraser , tell bbc scotland 's news website about the fun , nerves , humour and exhaustion which are part and parcel of conference events .
miles briggs scottish tory member " conference is always a great opportunity to meet old friends in the scottish party as well as making new ones .
there 's a real feeling within the party that we are on the move again in scotland .
it 's clear that in the parliament the scottish conservatives have made a difference . "
read in full stephanie fraser scottish tory member " part of the reason i go to conference is so that i can come back home to my constituency fired up with enthusiasm and utterly convinced that we can make a difference .
there is often the chance to talk to members of the shadow cabinet and msps informally and i wo n't be wasting that opportunity . "
read in full e-mail this to a friend related internet links scottish politics scottish conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- party faithful on conference trail accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:56 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:56 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version party faithful on conference trail hundreds of scottish conservative party members will attend their party 's annual conference in ayr .
but who will be at the gathering and why ?
two scottish tory foot soldiers , miles briggs and stephanie fraser , tell bbc scotland 's news website about the fun , nerves , humour and exhaustion which are part and parcel of conference events .
miles briggs scottish tory member conference is always a great opportunity to meet old friends in the scottish party as well as making new ones .
there 's a real feeling within the party that we are on the move again in scotland .
it 's clear that in the parliament the scottish conservatives have made a difference .
read in full stephanie fraser scottish tory member part of the reason i go to conference is so that i can come back home to my constituency fired up with enthusiasm and utterly convinced that we can make a difference .
there is often the chance to talk to members of the shadow cabinet and msps informally and i wo n't be wasting that opportunity .
read in full e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories bid to tackle ' obesity time bomb ' action call over hospital hygiene jail term for drunk train driver most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man in hiding betrayed by pet dog topless tobogganing in germany palm oil products and the weekly shop frog reveals secret of monogamy dozens killed in peru bus crash most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened car bomb explodes at courthouse obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog odeon confirms wonderland boycott us ' closes in on google hackers ' tv man gave up dead lover 's name dozens killed in peru bus crash first superman comic sold for $ 1m guilty plea in new york bomb plot day in pictures most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver israeli drone ' can reach iran ' burma 's kachin army set to fight israeli-born face deportation one-minute world news nato strike kills afghan civilians falklands oil drilling begins close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music an elephant 's rumble most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war strike damage european airlines struggle to polish up their images earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers most popular now most popular now -pipe- 45,171 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- party faithful on conference trail accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:56 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:56 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version party faithful on conference trail hundreds of scottish conservative party members will attend their party 's annual conference in ayr .
but who will be at the gathering and why ?
two scottish tory foot soldiers , miles briggs and stephanie fraser , tell bbc scotland 's news website about the fun , nerves , humour and exhaustion which are part and parcel of conference events .
miles briggs scottish tory member conference is always a great opportunity to meet old friends in the scottish party as well as making new ones .
there 's a real feeling within the party that we are on the move again in scotland .
it 's clear that in the parliament the scottish conservatives have made a difference .
read in full stephanie fraser scottish tory member part of the reason i go to conference is so that i can come back home to my constituency fired up with enthusiasm and utterly convinced that we can make a difference .
there is often the chance to talk to members of the shadow cabinet and msps informally and i wo n't be wasting that opportunity .
read in full e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories more snow shuts schools and roads new power line approval expected big chill to last two more weeks most popular stories now shared read watched / listened is this the world 's smartest dog ?
pi calculated to ' record number ' japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat schools closed after snowfall snow disrupts schools and travel most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened snow disrupts schools and travel japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat pornographic videos flood youtube pi calculated to ' record number ' stallone injured in fight scenes google phone to protect ad empire manchester city post massive loss obama given intelligence pledge bbc news - in pictures : uk ' deep freeze ' spreads china rejects iran un sanctions most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened is this the world 's smartest dog ?
us state reviews shackling laws swiss avalanche death toll rises europe ' will continue to shiver ' one-minute world news aerial view of the snow porn videos floods youtube viewers ' videos of snow scenes runaway pig sparks road chase google unveils nexus one handset most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland empire protection why google needs a new mobile phone most popular now most popular now -pipe- 141,329 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- party faithful on conference trail british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:56 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:56 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version party faithful on conference trail hundreds of scottish conservative party members will attend their party 's annual conference in ayr .
but who will be at the gathering and why ?
two scottish tory foot soldiers , miles briggs and stephanie fraser , tell bbc scotland 's news website about the fun , nerves , humour and exhaustion which are part and parcel of conference events .
miles briggs scottish tory member conference is always a great opportunity to meet old friends in the scottish party as well as making new ones .
there 's a real feeling within the party that we are on the move again in scotland .
it 's clear that in the parliament the scottish conservatives have made a difference .
read in full stephanie fraser scottish tory member part of the reason i go to conference is so that i can come back home to my constituency fired up with enthusiasm and utterly convinced that we can make a difference .
there is often the chance to talk to members of the shadow cabinet and msps informally and i wo n't be wasting that opportunity .
read in full e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories scots unemployment rate increases police name three road crash dead man tried to kill disabled wife most popular stories now shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened arizona shooting suspect charged how giffords survived the shot gates expresses chinese concern undercover officer switches sides brazil 's chinese bikini problem fury over doctor 's book on sex education for muslims virgin ' wo n't pay ' fees over snow brazil warns of global trade war scores killed in iran plane crash obama hails south sudanese vote most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened 911 tape of arizona shooting released surgeon ' cautiously optimistic ' close-up : azerbaijan 's oil baths examining the political fallout from arizona shooting one-minute world news one-minute world news kate middleton at friend 's wedding loughner tackled by wounded woman australia counts cost of flooding obama : ' tragedy for entire country ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 31,043 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- party faithful on conference trail british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 06:56 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 07:56 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version party faithful on conference trail hundreds of scottish conservative party members will attend their party 's annual conference in ayr .
but who will be at the gathering and why ?
two scottish tory foot soldiers , miles briggs and stephanie fraser , tell bbc scotland 's news website about the fun , nerves , humour and exhaustion which are part and parcel of conference events .
miles briggs scottish tory member conference is always a great opportunity to meet old friends in the scottish party as well as making new ones .
there 's a real feeling within the party that we are on the move again in scotland .
it 's clear that in the parliament the scottish conservatives have made a difference .
read in full stephanie fraser scottish tory member part of the reason i go to conference is so that i can come back home to my constituency fired up with enthusiasm and utterly convinced that we can make a difference .
there is often the chance to talk to members of the shadow cabinet and msps informally and i wo n't be wasting that opportunity .
read in full e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories murder probe after man shot dead dc thomson to cut 350 print jobs ellis close to rangers takeover most popular stories now shared read watched / listened tea ' healthier ' drink than water einstein and newton ' had autism ' in video : bramham 2010 course kingsolver crowned orange winner bafta tv awards 2010 : the winners most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna study unlocks jewish diaspora google accused of criminal intent iran dismisses new un sanctions is that woman pregnant or fat ?
boys deny younger sister 's rape afghan ' wedding blast ' kills 39 fox pictured after twins attack top prize for swiss solar pioneer dutch election in tight finish romanian stowaway on private jet most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan new cctv footage of haiti quake mexico struggles with ' war on drugs ' corden in spat with sir patrick sa fans go ' crazy ' at team parade one-minute world news world cup warning for sex tourists cheryl thanks her dentist at awards final big brother series starts snake found under van 's bonnet most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis your ideas 18 ways readers would have tackled the oil spill day in pictures most striking images from around the world from bbc sport > > mystery men the secretive world of n korean football most popular now most popular now -pipe- 43,657 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' a chance to pick up the gossip ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:03 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:03 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' a chance to pick up the gossip ' scottish conservative party member , stephanie fraser , is a former holyrood constituency candidate and head of development at scottish ballet .
she said she is looking forward to attending conference and hearing from uk tory leader david cameron .
my first big party gathering was during the uk leadership contest in 2005 when i travelled up to perth to hear david cameron and david davis .
i found it so inspiring that the next time i was in perth it was at my first conference as the candidate for strathkelvin and bearsden for last year 's holyrood elections .
stephanie fraser is a former holyrood candidate during the election campaign i met many talented and intelligent candidates .
i shall be particularly interested during this conference to see what has happened to these people since last year 's elections .
it is sad that many of these candidates were not successful and i am looking forward to seeing see how we have all moved on .
the party 's recent results in england and wales have illustrated that the conservatives are making significant inroads in areas where we have not been traditionally strong .
i believe that we must now see this progress in scotland .
i know that we have some great candidates and i am looking forward to hearing how they can be supported in their campaigns by the party centrally .
it can often be a lonely road as a candidate and conference provides an ideal time to share ideas and get together with those who are in the same boat .
it is also a time to pick up the gossip - what other constituencies are up to , who 's doing something particularly successful or daring , what 's working and what 's not .
there are also some exciting developments such as the glasgow business initiative that i am keen to hear more about .
during the scottish conference i look forward to hearing from members of the shadow cabinet and of course from david cameron himself .
this is their chance to inspire their loyal supporters north of the border .
going forward part of the reason i go to conference is so that i can come back home to my constituency fired up with enthusiasm and utterly convinced that we can make a difference .
there is often the chance to talk to members of the shadow cabinet and msps informally and i have no intention of wasting such an opportunity .
it 's worth so much more than just a photo opportunity and a great chance to hear what 's actually going on in westminster and holyrood .
david cameron is doing great things down south and i am delighted to see annabel 's work in the scottish parliament is now being recognised in opinion polls .
from constituency organisation , campaign planning and candidate support and training , many many practical things can be discussed at conference that could really help win elections north of the border .
we have a new chairman of the party in scotland and i will be really interested to hear his plans for taking things forward .
finally , conference is a chance to hear in what policy direction the party is going and by grabbing any speaking slot going , perhaps even to influence that policy debate .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories high scots nhs spend ' no benefit ' snp alcohol plans face key vote missing sophie found in scotland most popular stories now shared read watched / listened tea ' healthier ' drink than water slideshow : the farmer 's day feeling grumpy ' is good for you ' is that woman pregnant or fat ?
kingsolver crowned orange winner most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened bp shares plummet on obama fears dna study unlocks jewish diaspora is that woman pregnant or fat ?
mexican father ' killed children ' girl , six , stabbed in the chest liberals ahead in dutch election egypt city begins banning smoking ' abuse rife ' in tribal pakistan ' suicide bomb ' at afghan wedding iran dismisses new un sanctions most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan hollins ' world cup diary : shakira one-minute world news argentine opera house reopens oil ' reaching florida shoreline ' corden in spat with sir patrick world cup warning for sex tourists obama says sanctions send ' unmistakable message ' cheryl thanks her dentist at awards underwater footage of oil spill most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis polar extinction ?
popular beer under nationalisation threat in venezuela party time 2010 the fun has begun even before the world cup united in grief uk shootings community remembers victims most popular now most popular now -pipe- 67,800 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' a chance to pick up the gossip ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:03 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:03 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' a chance to pick up the gossip ' scottish conservative party member , stephanie fraser , is a former holyrood constituency candidate and head of development at scottish ballet .
she said she is looking forward to attending conference and hearing from uk tory leader david cameron .
my first big party gathering was during the uk leadership contest in 2005 when i travelled up to perth to hear david cameron and david davis .
i found it so inspiring that the next time i was in perth it was at my first conference as the candidate for strathkelvin and bearsden for last year 's holyrood elections .
stephanie fraser is a former holyrood candidate during the election campaign i met many talented and intelligent candidates .
i shall be particularly interested during this conference to see what has happened to these people since last year 's elections .
it is sad that many of these candidates were not successful and i am looking forward to seeing see how we have all moved on .
the party 's recent results in england and wales have illustrated that the conservatives are making significant inroads in areas where we have not been traditionally strong .
i believe that we must now see this progress in scotland .
i know that we have some great candidates and i am looking forward to hearing how they can be supported in their campaigns by the party centrally .
it can often be a lonely road as a candidate and conference provides an ideal time to share ideas and get together with those who are in the same boat .
it is also a time to pick up the gossip - what other constituencies are up to , who 's doing something particularly successful or daring , what 's working and what 's not .
there are also some exciting developments such as the glasgow business initiative that i am keen to hear more about .
during the scottish conference i look forward to hearing from members of the shadow cabinet and of course from david cameron himself .
this is their chance to inspire their loyal supporters north of the border .
going forward part of the reason i go to conference is so that i can come back home to my constituency fired up with enthusiasm and utterly convinced that we can make a difference .
there is often the chance to talk to members of the shadow cabinet and msps informally and i have no intention of wasting such an opportunity .
it 's worth so much more than just a photo opportunity and a great chance to hear what 's actually going on in westminster and holyrood .
david cameron is doing great things down south and i am delighted to see annabel 's work in the scottish parliament is now being recognised in opinion polls .
from constituency organisation , campaign planning and candidate support and training , many many practical things can be discussed at conference that could really help win elections north of the border .
we have a new chairman of the party in scotland and i will be really interested to hear his plans for taking things forward .
finally , conference is a chance to hear in what policy direction the party is going and by grabbing any speaking slot going , perhaps even to influence that policy debate .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories scots unemployment rate increases police name three road crash dead man tried to kill disabled wife most popular stories now shared read watched / listened zambia pushes for connected future seychelles haven of the giant tortoise most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem beckhams expecting fourth child iranian passenger plane ' crashes ' shot us politician ' doing well ' mixed-sex handshakes banned gates expresses chinese concern seychelles haven of the giant tortoise south sudan votes on independence chinese vice premier on uk visit east jerusalem hotel demolished most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news one-minute world news surgeon ' cautiously optimistic ' one-minute world news ' i played dead to escape gunman ' ' grab my hand to tell me you 're okay ' israeli bulldozers demolish hotel arizona police hunt second suspect inside a sudanese polling station kate middleton at friend 's wedding most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 75,586 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' a chance to pick up the gossip ' accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:03 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:03 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' a chance to pick up the gossip ' scottish conservative party member , stephanie fraser , is a former holyrood constituency candidate and head of development at scottish ballet .
she said she is looking forward to attending conference and hearing from uk tory leader david cameron .
my first big party gathering was during the uk leadership contest in 2005 when i travelled up to perth to hear david cameron and david davis .
i found it so inspiring that the next time i was in perth it was at my first conference as the candidate for strathkelvin and bearsden for last year 's holyrood elections .
stephanie fraser is a former holyrood candidate during the election campaign i met many talented and intelligent candidates .
i shall be particularly interested during this conference to see what has happened to these people since last year 's elections .
it is sad that many of these candidates were not successful and i am looking forward to seeing see how we have all moved on .
the party 's recent results in england and wales have illustrated that the conservatives are making significant inroads in areas where we have not been traditionally strong .
i believe that we must now see this progress in scotland .
i know that we have some great candidates and i am looking forward to hearing how they can be supported in their campaigns by the party centrally .
it can often be a lonely road as a candidate and conference provides an ideal time to share ideas and get together with those who are in the same boat .
it is also a time to pick up the gossip - what other constituencies are up to , who 's doing something particularly successful or daring , what 's working and what 's not .
there are also some exciting developments such as the glasgow business initiative that i am keen to hear more about .
during the scottish conference i look forward to hearing from members of the shadow cabinet and of course from david cameron himself .
this is their chance to inspire their loyal supporters north of the border .
going forward part of the reason i go to conference is so that i can come back home to my constituency fired up with enthusiasm and utterly convinced that we can make a difference .
there is often the chance to talk to members of the shadow cabinet and msps informally and i have no intention of wasting such an opportunity .
it 's worth so much more than just a photo opportunity and a great chance to hear what 's actually going on in westminster and holyrood .
david cameron is doing great things down south and i am delighted to see annabel 's work in the scottish parliament is now being recognised in opinion polls .
from constituency organisation , campaign planning and candidate support and training , many many practical things can be discussed at conference that could really help win elections north of the border .
we have a new chairman of the party in scotland and i will be really interested to hear his plans for taking things forward .
finally , conference is a chance to hear in what policy direction the party is going and by grabbing any speaking slot going , perhaps even to influence that policy debate .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservative party the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories bid to tackle ' obesity time bomb ' action call over hospital hygiene jail term for drunk train driver most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man in hiding betrayed by pet dog singing ' rewires ' damaged brain beer with 32 % strength launched falklands oil drilling ' started ' peanut allergy ' cure ' put to test most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog iran warning over ' persian gulf ' odeon confirms wonderland boycott tv man gave up dead lover 's name threat from e-waste ' mountains ' lufthansa pilots suspend strike swiss man surrenders to libyans day in pictures eu condemns dubai passport plot most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany israeli drone ' can reach iran ' fresh madeira landslide warning one-minute world news close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music highlights from the bafta awards space shuttle endeavour lands how british army is tackling ied threat lufthansa pilots begin strike bafta red carpet highlights most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers day in pictures eye-catching images from around the world lives in our hands lufthansa pilot on why his colleagues went on strike most popular now most popular now -pipe- 63,443 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:20 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:20 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website when scottish conservative leader annabel goldie ruled out any coalition deal at the start of last year 's holyrood election campaign , some wondered whether she had lost the plot .
what effect will the " cameron bounce " have in scotland ?
nailing her colours firmly to the mast before any other party had unveiled its manifesto was a bold move .
but , a year after voters went to the polls , holyrood 's third-largest party can claim to have won major concessions from the scottish government .
at the same time , the scottish conservatives dismissed labour and liberal democrat criticism that the country 's most staunchly pro-union party had got into bed with its rival and formed an unholy alliance .
the tories returned to the new-look scottish parliament with one less msp than before - and lost another when alex fergusson gave up his party to become holyrood presiding officer .
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party but there were successes , including snatching the roxburgh and berwickshire seat from the lib dems and former party leader david mcletchie increasing his hold on the former labour seat of edinburgh pentlands .
taking the opportunity to do business with a minority government in need of support , the tories supported its budget in return for ministers ' agreement to a new drugs strategy , speedier cuts in business rates and boosting police recruitment - although the latter was an issue seized on by all opposition parties .
but the air of consensus wafting around the cannongate , did not stop the tories from causing a headache for the government by voting down its plans to extend electronic tagging for prisoners at the committee stage and - in a similar vein - branding ministers ' plans to expand non-custodial sentences " convicts in the community " .
bad memories the conservatives also backed the calman commission to review devolution - a body which is not looking at the issue of scottish independence .
and , proving no politician can be gaffe-free , the party 's rangers-supporting deputy leader murdo fraser was forced to temper his language after saying a decision to deploy riot police as football fans and officers clashed in manchester during the uefa cup final was an over-reaction .
mr fraser 's plea in mitigation was that his comments were amended after watching cctv footage of the violent scenes .
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party .
will the uk party 's success in the english regional elections and the so-called " david cameron bounce " be able to hop north of the border - or are the memories of policies such as the poll tax still too ingrained ?
that said , the last conservative government was in power at a time when labour had spent decades dominating scottish politics - a situation ended by the snp .
in a time of unprecedented change on the scottish political landscape , perhaps anything is possible .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservatives the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories bid to tackle ' obesity time bomb ' action call over hospital hygiene jail term for drunk train driver most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man in hiding betrayed by pet dog singing ' rewires ' damaged brain ba cabin crew back strike action falklands oil drilling ' started ' frog reveals secret of monogamy most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog tv man gave up dead lover 's name iran warning over ' persian gulf ' day in pictures lufthansa pilots suspend strike eu condemns dubai passport plot odeon confirms wonderland boycott swiss man surrenders to libyans threat from e-waste ' mountains ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany israeli drone ' can reach iran ' one-minute world news highlights from the bafta awards close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music space shuttle endeavour lands world 's shortest man shuns limelight fresh madeira landslide warning bafta red carpet highlights portugal to mourn madeira victims most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers day in pictures eye-catching images from around the world lives in our hands lufthansa pilot on why his colleagues went on strike most popular now most popular now -pipe- 58,786 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day breakfast news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:20 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:20 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website when scottish conservative leader annabel goldie ruled out any coalition deal at the start of last year 's holyrood election campaign , some wondered whether she had lost the plot .
what effect will the " cameron bounce " have in scotland ?
nailing her colours firmly to the mast before any other party had unveiled its manifesto was a bold move .
but , a year after voters went to the polls , holyrood 's third-largest party can claim to have won major concessions from the scottish government .
at the same time , the scottish conservatives dismissed labour and liberal democrat criticism that the country 's most staunchly pro-union party had got into bed with its rival and formed an unholy alliance .
the tories returned to the new-look scottish parliament with one less msp than before - and lost another when alex fergusson gave up his party to become holyrood presiding officer .
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party but there were successes , including snatching the roxburgh and berwickshire seat from the lib dems and former party leader david mcletchie increasing his hold on the former labour seat of edinburgh pentlands .
taking the opportunity to do business with a minority government in need of support , the tories supported its budget in return for ministers ' agreement to a new drugs strategy , speedier cuts in business rates and boosting police recruitment - although the latter was an issue seized on by all opposition parties .
but the air of consensus wafting around the cannongate , did not stop the tories from causing a headache for the government by voting down its plans to extend electronic tagging for prisoners at the committee stage and - in a similar vein - branding ministers ' plans to expand non-custodial sentences " convicts in the community " .
bad memories the conservatives also backed the calman commission to review devolution - a body which is not looking at the issue of scottish independence .
and , proving no politician can be gaffe-free , the party 's rangers-supporting deputy leader murdo fraser was forced to temper his language after saying a decision to deploy riot police as football fans and officers clashed in manchester during the uefa cup final was an over-reaction .
mr fraser 's plea in mitigation was that his comments were amended after watching cctv footage of the violent scenes .
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party .
will the uk party 's success in the english regional elections and the so-called " david cameron bounce " be able to hop north of the border - or are the memories of policies such as the poll tax still too ingrained ?
that said , the last conservative government was in power at a time when labour had spent decades dominating scottish politics - a situation ended by the snp .
in a time of unprecedented change on the scottish political landscape , perhaps anything is possible .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservatives the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories more snow shuts schools and roads new power line approval expected big chill to last two more weeks most popular stories now shared read watched / listened plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' further snow brings school closures across birmingham two killer whale types identified school closures in derbyshire most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened schools closed as blizzards hit australia downplays india warning pornographic videos flood youtube obama given intelligence pledge china sued by us software company google phone to protect ad empire plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' cia killings a major blow to us in pictures : bird 's nest winter wonderland most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened view from the top of world 's tallest building porn videos floods youtube runaway pig sparks road chase one-minute world news google unveils nexus one handset viewers ' videos of snow scenes us state reviews shackling laws man 's lucky escape from runaway bus aerial view of the snow met office warnings as snow spreads most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland major blow cia ' triple agent ' killing embarrases us and jordan most popular now most popular now -pipe- 123,486 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:20 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:20 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website when scottish conservative leader annabel goldie ruled out any coalition deal at the start of last year 's holyrood election campaign , some wondered whether she had lost the plot .
what effect will the " cameron bounce " have in scotland ?
nailing her colours firmly to the mast before any other party had unveiled its manifesto was a bold move .
but , a year after voters went to the polls , holyrood 's third-largest party can claim to have won major concessions from the scottish government .
at the same time , the scottish conservatives dismissed labour and liberal democrat criticism that the country 's most staunchly pro-union party had got into bed with its rival and formed an unholy alliance .
the tories returned to the new-look scottish parliament with one less msp than before - and lost another when alex fergusson gave up his party to become holyrood presiding officer .
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party but there were successes , including snatching the roxburgh and berwickshire seat from the lib dems and former party leader david mcletchie increasing his hold on the former labour seat of edinburgh pentlands .
taking the opportunity to do business with a minority government in need of support , the tories supported its budget in return for ministers ' agreement to a new drugs strategy , speedier cuts in business rates and boosting police recruitment - although the latter was an issue seized on by all opposition parties .
but the air of consensus wafting around the cannongate , did not stop the tories from causing a headache for the government by voting down its plans to extend electronic tagging for prisoners at the committee stage and - in a similar vein - branding ministers ' plans to expand non-custodial sentences " convicts in the community " .
bad memories the conservatives also backed the calman commission to review devolution - a body which is not looking at the issue of scottish independence .
and , proving no politician can be gaffe-free , the party 's rangers-supporting deputy leader murdo fraser was forced to temper his language after saying a decision to deploy riot police as football fans and officers clashed in manchester during the uefa cup final was an over-reaction .
mr fraser 's plea in mitigation was that his comments were amended after watching cctv footage of the violent scenes .
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party .
will the uk party 's success in the english regional elections and the so-called " david cameron bounce " be able to hop north of the border - or are the memories of policies such as the poll tax still too ingrained ?
that said , the last conservative government was in power at a time when labour had spent decades dominating scottish politics - a situation ended by the snp .
in a time of unprecedented change on the scottish political landscape , perhaps anything is possible .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservatives the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories high scots nhs spend ' no benefit ' snp alcohol plans face key vote cargo plane ' hit deer on runway ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened kingsolver crowned orange winner feeling grumpy ' is good for you ' tea ' healthier ' drink than water introducing ... the glass cliff libya honours chavez with stadium most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna study unlocks jewish diaspora iran dismisses new un sanctions is that woman pregnant or fat ?
mexican father ' killed children ' google accused of criminal intent boys deny younger sister 's rape ' abuse rife ' in tribal pakistan afghan ' wedding blast ' kills 39 romanian stowaway on private jet top prize for swiss solar pioneer most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan new cctv footage of haiti quake one-minute world news corden in spat with sir patrick oil ' reaching florida shoreline ' sa fans go ' crazy ' at team parade wwii plane lands with a bump cheryl thanks her dentist at awards highlights from the glamour awards snake found under van 's bonnet most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis polar extinction ?
popular beer under nationalisation threat in venezuela your ideas 18 ways readers would have tackled the oil spill from bbc sport > > mystery men the secretive world of n korean football most popular now most popular now -pipe- 24,029 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:20 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:20 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website when scottish conservative leader annabel goldie ruled out any coalition deal at the start of last year 's holyrood election campaign , some wondered whether she had lost the plot .
what effect will the " cameron bounce " have in scotland ?
nailing her colours firmly to the mast before any other party had unveiled its manifesto was a bold move .
but , a year after voters went to the polls , holyrood 's third-largest party can claim to have won major concessions from the scottish government .
at the same time , the scottish conservatives dismissed labour and liberal democrat criticism that the country 's most staunchly pro-union party had got into bed with its rival and formed an unholy alliance .
the tories returned to the new-look scottish parliament with one less msp than before - and lost another when alex fergusson gave up his party to become holyrood presiding officer .
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party but there were successes , including snatching the roxburgh and berwickshire seat from the lib dems and former party leader david mcletchie increasing his hold on the former labour seat of edinburgh pentlands .
taking the opportunity to do business with a minority government in need of support , the tories supported its budget in return for ministers ' agreement to a new drugs strategy , speedier cuts in business rates and boosting police recruitment - although the latter was an issue seized on by all opposition parties .
but the air of consensus wafting around the cannongate , did not stop the tories from causing a headache for the government by voting down its plans to extend electronic tagging for prisoners at the committee stage and - in a similar vein - branding ministers ' plans to expand non-custodial sentences " convicts in the community " .
bad memories the conservatives also backed the calman commission to review devolution - a body which is not looking at the issue of scottish independence .
and , proving no politician can be gaffe-free , the party 's rangers-supporting deputy leader murdo fraser was forced to temper his language after saying a decision to deploy riot police as football fans and officers clashed in manchester during the uefa cup final was an over-reaction .
mr fraser 's plea in mitigation was that his comments were amended after watching cctv footage of the violent scenes .
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party .
will the uk party 's success in the english regional elections and the so-called " david cameron bounce " be able to hop north of the border - or are the memories of policies such as the poll tax still too ingrained ?
that said , the last conservative government was in power at a time when labour had spent decades dominating scottish politics - a situation ended by the snp .
in a time of unprecedented change on the scottish political landscape , perhaps anything is possible .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservatives the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories scots unemployment rate increases police name three road crash dead man tried to kill disabled wife most popular stories now shared read watched / listened zambia pushes for connected future seychelles haven of the giant tortoise brazil 's chinese bikini problem most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem iranian passenger plane ' crashes ' beckhams expecting fourth child shot us politician ' doing well ' mixed-sex handshakes banned south sudan votes on independence gates expresses chinese concern chinese vice premier on uk visit seychelles haven of the giant tortoise east jerusalem hotel demolished most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news ' i played dead to escape gunman ' ' grab my hand to tell me you 're okay ' swedes ' want king to abdicate ' one-minute world news technology to keep elderly safe surgeon ' cautiously optimistic ' helicopter tour of west bank and israel eyewitness : ' bullet holes in windows ' close-up : azerbaijan 's oil baths most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 72,843 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends bbc news / scotland graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 07:20 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:20 uk ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website when scottish conservative leader annabel goldie ruled out any coalition deal at the start of last year 's holyrood election campaign , some wondered whether she had lost the plot .
nailing her colours firmly to the mast before any other party had unveiled its manifesto was a bold move .
but , a year after voters went to the polls , holyrood 's third-largest party can claim to have won major concessions from the scottish government .
at the same time , the scottish conservatives dismissed labour and liberal democrat criticism that the country 's most staunchly pro-union party had got into bed with its rival and formed an unholy alliance .
the tories returned to the new-look scottish parliament with one less msp than before - and lost another when alex fergusson gave up his party to become holyrood presiding officer . "
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party " but there were successes , including snatching the roxburgh and berwickshire seat from the lib dems and former party leader david mcletchie increasing his hold on the former labour seat of edinburgh pentlands .
taking the opportunity to do business with a minority government in need of support , the tories supported its budget in return for ministers ' agreement to a new drugs strategy , speedier cuts in business rates and boosting police recruitment - although the latter was an issue seized on by all opposition parties .
but the air of consensus wafting around the cannongate , did not stop the tories from causing a headache for the government by voting down its plans to extend electronic tagging for prisoners at the committee stage and - in a similar vein - branding ministers ' plans to expand non-custodial sentences " convicts in the community " .
bad memories the conservatives also backed the calman commission to review devolution - a body which is not looking at the issue of scottish independence .
and , proving no politician can be gaffe-free , the party 's rangers-supporting deputy leader murdo fraser was forced to temper his language after saying a decision to deploy riot police as football fans and officers clashed in manchester during the uefa cup final was an over-reaction .
mr fraser 's plea in mitigation was that his comments were amended after watching cctv footage of the violent scenes .
despite achievements at holyrood , long-term questions remain for the scottish conservative party .
will the uk party 's success in the english regional elections and the so-called " david cameron bounce " be able to hop north of the border - or are the memories of policies such as the poll tax still too ingrained ?
that said , the last conservative government was in power at a time when labour had spent decades dominating scottish politics - a situation ended by the snp .
in a time of unprecedented change on the scottish political landscape , perhaps anything is possible .
e-mail this to a friend related internet links scottish conservatives scottish politics the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call bbc news / business graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- business contents : your money -pipe- economy companies 07:22 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:22 uk ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call the swiss bank ubs , which has been among the worst hit by the credit crunch , has launched its rights issue .
it is raising 16bn swiss francs -lrb- $ 15.5bn ; £ 8bn -rrb- by offering seven new shares for every 20 shares held at a price of 21 francs .
the price is about a third below its current market value and 73 % below its peak level , set less than a year ago .
it is the latest move by ubs to raise new money to cover its $ 37bn writedowns on assets linked to us mortgage debt .
on wednesday , ubs finalised a $ 15bn deal to sell discounted mortgage-related assets to the us fund manager blackrock .
it has also received cash injections from investors in singapore and the middle east .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : ubs sells loans in cut-price deal -lrb- 21 may 08 -pipe- business -rrb- swiss bank ubs cuts 5,500 posts -lrb- 06 may 08 -pipe- business -rrb- worst is over for ubs , says boss -lrb- 23 apr 08 -pipe- business -rrb- ubs admits errors to shareholders -lrb- 21 apr 08 -pipe- business -rrb- investor calls for ubs break-up -lrb- 04 apr 08 -pipe- business -rrb- new ubs boss admits to ' damage ' -lrb- 16 apr 08 -pipe- business -rrb- related internet links blackrock ubs the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- business contents : your money -pipe- economy companies newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:22 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call ubs has been the worst-hit bank in europe from the us mortgage crisis the swiss bank ubs , which has been among the worst hit by the credit crunch , has launched its rights issue .
it is raising 16bn swiss francs -lrb- $ 15.5bn ; £ 8bn -rrb- by offering seven new shares for every 20 shares held at a price of 21 francs .
the price is about a third below its current market value and 73 % below its peak level , set less than a year ago .
it is the latest move by ubs to raise new money to cover its $ 37bn writedowns on assets linked to us mortgage debt .
on wednesday , ubs finalised a $ 15bn deal to sell discounted mortgage-related assets to the us fund manager blackrock .
it has also received cash injections from investors in singapore and the middle east .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also ubs sells loans in cut-price deal 21 may 08 -pipe- business swiss bank ubs cuts 5,500 posts 06 may 08 -pipe- business worst is over for ubs , says boss 23 apr 08 -pipe- business ubs admits errors to shareholders 21 apr 08 -pipe- business investor calls for ubs break-up 04 apr 08 -pipe- business new ubs boss admits to ' damage ' 16 apr 08 -pipe- business related internet links blackrock ubs the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top business stories strong demand boosts intel profit rio resumes australia investment unemployment dips to 2.47 million most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nz judge orders ' odd ' name change why flying with children is no picnic wyclef jean sobs over haiti quake most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened boy named hitler to stay in care france starts removing roma camps mandela aide ' got campbell gems ' pakistan floods ' hit 12m people ' nz judge orders ' odd ' name change japan ship damage ' was terrorism ' reykjavik 's mayor appears in drag saudi blackberry service resumes moscow under smog health warning us sees 131,000 jobs lost in july most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' police ' smash pensioner 's car ' cameron and zardari ' enhance partnership ' urban farming bid to revive detroit furgle ?
dringle ?
non-words , innit !
monty python team caught in early home movie wine vending machines launch in us hiroshima remembers atomic bomb ' poo-powered ' car hits the road most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 71,400 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:22 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call ubs has been the worst-hit bank in europe from the us mortgage crisis the swiss bank ubs , which has been among the worst hit by the credit crunch , has launched its rights issue .
it is raising 16bn swiss francs -lrb- $ 15.5bn ; £ 8bn -rrb- by offering seven new shares for every 20 shares held at a price of 21 francs .
the price is about a third below its current market value and 73 % below its peak level , set less than a year ago .
it is the latest move by ubs to raise new money to cover its $ 37bn writedowns on assets linked to us mortgage debt .
on wednesday , ubs finalised a $ 15bn deal to sell discounted mortgage-related assets to the us fund manager blackrock .
it has also received cash injections from investors in singapore and the middle east .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also ubs sells loans in cut-price deal 21 may 08 -pipe- business swiss bank ubs cuts 5,500 posts 06 may 08 -pipe- business worst is over for ubs , says boss 23 apr 08 -pipe- business ubs admits errors to shareholders 21 apr 08 -pipe- business investor calls for ubs break-up 04 apr 08 -pipe- business new ubs boss admits to ' damage ' 16 apr 08 -pipe- business related internet links blackrock ubs the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top business stories court blocks ba christmas strike airbus trading case is dismissed champions league riches rise most popular stories now shared read watched / listened unholy row over virgin mary image iraq rebels ' hack into us drones ' experts crack cancer ' gene code ' octopus snatches coconut and runs how to solve russia 's waste problem most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened air france jet ' black box ' call iraq rebels ' hack into us drones ' unholy row over virgin mary image youtube post leads to movie deal progress gives climate deal hope airline 's collapse strands 4,500 french launch major afghan attack warning over heavy snow forecast court blocks ba christmas strike churchill 's unpaid india bill on show most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened hollywood deal after youtube post japanese man marries virtual bride one-minute world news octopus snatches coconut and runs simon cowell 's idea for new show arrest in brazil needle boy case kansas divided over ' green ambitions ' nativity crisis at smallest school heavy snow expected , says bbc weather how to solve russia 's waste problem most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis televangelist star muslim tv preacher with global audience of millions churchillian debt british wartime leader 's unpaid bill at india club be sceptical !
keep asking climate questions , says bbc ethical man most popular now most popular now -pipe- 59,600 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:22 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call ubs has been the worst-hit bank in europe from the us mortgage crisis the swiss bank ubs , which has been among the worst hit by the credit crunch , has launched its rights issue .
it is raising 16bn swiss francs -lrb- $ 15.5bn ; £ 8bn -rrb- by offering seven new shares for every 20 shares held at a price of 21 francs .
the price is about a third below its current market value and 73 % below its peak level , set less than a year ago .
it is the latest move by ubs to raise new money to cover its $ 37bn writedowns on assets linked to us mortgage debt .
on wednesday , ubs finalised a $ 15bn deal to sell discounted mortgage-related assets to the us fund manager blackrock .
it has also received cash injections from investors in singapore and the middle east .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also ubs sells loans in cut-price deal 21 may 08 -pipe- business swiss bank ubs cuts 5,500 posts 06 may 08 -pipe- business worst is over for ubs , says boss 23 apr 08 -pipe- business ubs admits errors to shareholders 21 apr 08 -pipe- business investor calls for ubs break-up 04 apr 08 -pipe- business new ubs boss admits to ' damage ' 16 apr 08 -pipe- business related internet links blackrock ubs the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top business stories china 's economy in major growth starbucks sees its profits triple ebay profits lifted by skype sale most popular stories now shared read watched / listened brain size governs ' game prowess ' trials spark hope of pill for ms how did quakers conquer the british sweet shop ?
starbucks sees its profits triple rare glimpse of the crystal cave most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened brain size governs ' game prowess ' china 's economy in major growth air france may bar obese people starbucks sees its profits triple wildlife photo stripped of award us diverts 4,000 troops to haiti obama warns senate on healthcare how did quakers conquer the british sweet shop ?
manchester united debt hits £ 716m rare glimpse of the crystal cave most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened haiti 's outdoor maternity ward children rescued from the rubble new video of orphanage hit by quake one-minute world news prince william proves a hit ' down under ' rare footage of crystal cave cornel west 's note to obama mervyn king on ' rewarding gamblers ' stars on red carpet for tv awards us vows to step up haiti efforts most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis patronage politics philippine massacre exposes political underworld sights unseen training blind people to take photos graining it how sugar made tycoons out of a religious sect most popular now most popular now -pipe- 41,271 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:22 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call ubs has been the worst-hit bank in europe from the us mortgage crisis the swiss bank ubs , which has been among the worst hit by the credit crunch , has launched its rights issue .
it is raising 16bn swiss francs -lrb- $ 15.5bn ; £ 8bn -rrb- by offering seven new shares for every 20 shares held at a price of 21 francs .
the price is about a third below its current market value and 73 % below its peak level , set less than a year ago .
it is the latest move by ubs to raise new money to cover its $ 37bn writedowns on assets linked to us mortgage debt .
on wednesday , ubs finalised a $ 15bn deal to sell discounted mortgage-related assets to the us fund manager blackrock .
it has also received cash injections from investors in singapore and the middle east .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also ubs sells loans in cut-price deal 21 may 08 -pipe- business swiss bank ubs cuts 5,500 posts 06 may 08 -pipe- business worst is over for ubs , says boss 23 apr 08 -pipe- business ubs admits errors to shareholders 21 apr 08 -pipe- business investor calls for ubs break-up 04 apr 08 -pipe- business new ubs boss admits to ' damage ' 16 apr 08 -pipe- business related internet links blackrock ubs the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top business stories gm to start loan repayments early uk stocks surge in global rally fed ' attentive ' to us dollar drop most popular stories now shared read watched / listened plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' meditation ' eases heart disease ' uk children ' trafficked for sex ' conjoined twins op ' successful ' israel rejects palestinian move most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened end protectionism , china tells us uk children ' trafficked for sex ' conjoined twins op ' successful ' plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' nabokov 's unfinished work is published meteor shower set to reach peak new realities for ancient timbuktu palin says 2012 run not on radar meditation ' eases heart disease ' us shuttle takes worms into space most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened china calls for end to protectionism one-minute world news nasa 's atlantis shuttle blasts off conjoined twins op ' successful ' mexico 's most dangerous city record breaking ' arrow ' sky dive driving a car using your phone obama 's official welcome to china obama on relations with china new call of duty hits shops most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis timbuktu terror ?
fears al-qaeda is bound for mali 's fabled desert town last word why nabokov 's son defied father 's wish to burn final book roll call campaign to register world 's invisible children most popular now most popular now -pipe- 27,586 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business market data economy companies health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:22 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ubs launches $ 15.5bn cash call ubs has been the worst-hit bank in europe from the us mortgage crisis the swiss bank ubs , which has been among the worst hit by the credit crunch , has launched its rights issue .
it is raising 16bn swiss francs -lrb- $ 15.5bn ; £ 8bn -rrb- by offering seven new shares for every 20 shares held at a price of 21 francs .
the price is about a third below its current market value and 73 % below its peak level , set less than a year ago .
it is the latest move by ubs to raise new money to cover its $ 37bn writedowns on assets linked to us mortgage debt .
on wednesday , ubs finalised a $ 15bn deal to sell discounted mortgage-related assets to the us fund manager blackrock .
it has also received cash injections from investors in singapore and the middle east .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also ubs sells loans in cut-price deal 21 may 08 -pipe- business swiss bank ubs cuts 5,500 posts 06 may 08 -pipe- business worst is over for ubs , says boss 23 apr 08 -pipe- business ubs admits errors to shareholders 21 apr 08 -pipe- business investor calls for ubs break-up 04 apr 08 -pipe- business new ubs boss admits to ' damage ' 16 apr 08 -pipe- business related internet links blackrock ubs the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top business stories strong demand boosts intel profit rio resumes australia investment unemployment dips to 2.47 million most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened pentagon budget to get $ 78bn cut swedish bird deaths are explained anna nicole convictions dismissed security level raised at airports jackson doctor ' cleaned up drugs ' uk 's ivory coast envoy ' expelled ' egypt 's nervy christmas dioxin scare shuts german farms china stealth plane ' years away ' ammonite diet revealed in x-rays most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened homeless man 's radio voice is a hit one-minute world news rail announcer 's ' sexy ' accent celebrating new york 's art heritage barmy army founder on ashes win tight security for coptic christmas mind tricks for new year dieting cruise ships welcomed in cuba germany 's fdp ' under pressure ' cuba improves relations with church most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 19,786 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage bbc news / entertainment graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- uk election -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- entertainment contents : arts & culture 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says . "
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality " andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest bbc eurovision site the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- uk election -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- entertainment contents : arts & culture newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage bbc news / entertainment graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- entertainment contents : arts & culture 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says . "
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality " andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest bbc eurovision site the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- entertainment contents : arts & culture newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news andy abraham will perform even if at the eurovision song contest it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement andy gets eurovision advice from old hands scooch and cheryl baker from 1981 winners bucks fizz he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says .
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
abraham is used to being recognised by fans but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
eurovision 2008 reporter 's log all the news and views from the eurovision arena song contest latest emotional night for fans russia scoops eurovision victory wogan ' may quit eurovision role ' in pictures : song contest 2008 the final scoreboard belgrade build-up what do the locals think ?
meet presenter jovana jankovic interview : andy abraham talking shop : carrie grant comic offerings head challenge bbc eurovision fans ' vote sweden tipped to win eurovision eurovision vote : top 10 the fans ' final scoreboard the winners and losers russia : 1st ukraine : 2nd greece : 3rd germany : joint 24th poland : joint 24th uk : 25th -lrb- last -rrb- related bbc links bbc eurovision site related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories heavy rock singer dio dies at 67 ' legal threat ' over winnie film cannes applauds berlusconi film most popular stories now shared read watched / listened cycling the world 's most dangerous road why new zealand is a lifestyle superpower heavy rock singer dio dies at 67 couple say ' i dos ' before robot moscow diary : english newspeak most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened heavy rock singer dio dies at 67 ash flight restrictions extended bp says new oil plan working well cycling the world 's most dangerous road thailand rejects protester talks why new zealand is a lifestyle superpower couple say ' i dos ' before robot audit of ' crazy ' labour spending phone-cancer link ' inconclusive ' the risks of adopting from russia most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened bp successfully siphons oil one-minute world news predicting the ash cloud path underwater footage of oil spill no food or water for 70 years ?
hero foils leeds bookmaker hold-up thousands watch chelsea parade tokyo couple married by robot train spotter in narrow escape close-up : voodoo in florida 's little haiti most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis cannes diary martin scorsese 's ' labour of love ' to the beatles heating up insurgent campaigners on rise in us primaries mountain madness why do cyclists risk their lives on the ' death road ' ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 105,957 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links election 2010 formula 1 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news andy abraham will perform even if at the eurovision song contest it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement andy gets eurovision advice from old hands scooch and cheryl baker from 1981 winners bucks fizz he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says .
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
abraham is used to being recognised by fans but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
eurovision 2008 reporter 's log all the news and views from the eurovision arena song contest latest emotional night for fans russia scoops eurovision victory wogan ' may quit eurovision role ' in pictures : song contest 2008 the final scoreboard belgrade build-up what do the locals think ?
meet presenter jovana jankovic interview : andy abraham talking shop : carrie grant comic offerings head challenge bbc eurovision fans ' vote sweden tipped to win eurovision eurovision vote : top 10 the fans ' final scoreboard the winners and losers russia : 1st ukraine : 2nd greece : 3rd germany : joint 24th poland : joint 24th uk : 25th -lrb- last -rrb- related bbc links bbc eurovision site related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories beyonce leads grammy nominations polanski to move to house arrest group deny hollywood burglaries most popular stories now shared read watched / listened retiring men ' happier than women ' fund family planning ' to cut co2 ' the brutal life of haiti 's child slaves titian claim over doge portrait huge ' star-quake ' rocks milky way most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened explosion kills somali ministers woods admits letting family down deadly bus explosion in damascus intel unveils 48-core cloud chip putin takes aim at train bombers in pictures : bhopal 25 years on pm told bin laden not in pakistan italy ' to boost afghan mission ' susan boyle sets us chart record bank of america to repay bail-out most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama 's first white house christmas scientists hail robotic hand ' breakthrough ' argentina chair throwing outburst controversial pictures go on show in paris one-minute world news south korea mps in mass brawl marilyn ' marijuana ' film shown straight to the pointe : how a ballet shoe is made soyuz crew prepare for earth return ' hot ' marilyn footage to be sold most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis child slaves servitude and abuse for haiti 's poor youngsters human after all but will scandal make tiger woods more likeable ?
in pictures bhopal marks 25 years since leak killed thousands most popular now most popular now -pipe- 58,871 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news andy abraham will perform even if at the eurovision song contest it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement andy gets eurovision advice from old hands scooch and cheryl baker from 1981 winners bucks fizz he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says .
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
abraham is used to being recognised by fans but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
eurovision 2008 reporter 's log all the news and views from the eurovision arena song contest latest emotional night for fans russia scoops eurovision victory wogan ' may quit eurovision role ' in pictures : song contest 2008 the final scoreboard belgrade build-up what do the locals think ?
meet presenter jovana jankovic interview : andy abraham talking shop : carrie grant comic offerings head challenge bbc eurovision fans ' vote sweden tipped to win eurovision eurovision vote : top 10 the fans ' final scoreboard the winners and losers russia : 1st ukraine : 2nd greece : 3rd germany : joint 24th poland : joint 24th uk : 25th -lrb- last -rrb- related bbc links bbc eurovision site related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 reschedule us and canada dates cheryl ' on the mend ' says simon cowell zsa zsa gabor taken to hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened air crash kills sudanese minister can the ' cuban-jubans ' rebuild south sudan ?
panoramic photo : sudan homecoming most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened hague test for campbell evidence eurosceptic swiss count their blessings robbie williams weds ayda field indonesia cleric in terror arrest turkey groom kills wedding guests israel ship raid ' legal ' says pm mexico police hold own commander bp oil spill costs pass $ 6bn mark world sauna event finalist dies lehman bros art under the hammer most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' dumpster dip ' cools new yorkers flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep fleeing a village destroyed by floods residents ' ordeals in flood-hit europe tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse ' i saw a few dirty looking stones ' one-minute world news conservationists begin mass ' frog hunt ' freak weather havoc hits europe 16 killed in east europe floods most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 74,186 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news andy abraham will perform even if at the eurovision song contest it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement andy gets eurovision advice from old hands scooch and cheryl baker from 1981 winners bucks fizz he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says .
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
abraham is used to being recognised by fans but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
eurovision 2008 reporter 's log all the news and views from the eurovision arena song contest latest emotional night for fans russia scoops eurovision victory wogan ' may quit eurovision role ' in pictures : song contest 2008 the final scoreboard belgrade build-up what do the locals think ?
meet presenter jovana jankovic interview : andy abraham talking shop : carrie grant comic offerings head challenge bbc eurovision fans ' vote sweden tipped to win eurovision eurovision vote : top 10 the fans ' final scoreboard the winners and losers russia : 1st ukraine : 2nd greece : 3rd germany : joint 24th poland : joint 24th uk : 25th -lrb- last -rrb- related bbc links bbc eurovision site related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 and jay-z record haiti track doctor who scoops two tv awards gibson : ' i survived humiliation ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened brain size governs ' game prowess ' trials spark hope of pill for ms rare glimpse of the crystal cave how did quakers conquer the british sweet shop ?
starbucks sees its profits triple most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened brain size governs ' game prowess ' china 's economy in major growth air france may bar obese people us diverts 4,000 troops to haiti wildlife photo stripped of award obama warns senate on healthcare starbucks sees its profits triple rare glimpse of the crystal cave how did quakers conquer the british sweet shop ?
manchester united debt hits £ 716m most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened rare footage of crystal cave children rescued from the rubble one-minute world news new video of orphanage hit by quake prince begins official nz visit prince william in new zealand woman survives week under rubble baby is born amid haiti 's ruins prince william proves a hit ' down under ' us vows to step up haiti efforts most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis patronage politics philippine massacre exposes political underworld sights unseen training blind people to take photos graining it how sugar made tycoons out of a religious sect most popular now most popular now -pipe- 21,814 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news andy abraham will perform even if at the eurovision song contest it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement andy gets eurovision advice from old hands scooch and cheryl baker from 1981 winners bucks fizz he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says .
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
abraham is used to being recognised by fans but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
eurovision 2008 reporter 's log all the news and views from the eurovision arena song contest latest emotional night for fans russia scoops eurovision victory wogan ' may quit eurovision role ' in pictures : song contest 2008 the final scoreboard belgrade build-up what do the locals think ?
meet presenter jovana jankovic interview : andy abraham talking shop : carrie grant comic offerings head challenge bbc eurovision fans ' vote sweden tipped to win eurovision eurovision vote : top 10 the fans ' final scoreboard the winners and losers russia : 1st ukraine : 2nd greece : 3rd germany : joint 24th poland : joint 24th uk : 25th -lrb- last -rrb- related bbc links bbc eurovision site related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 reschedule us and canada dates cheryl ' on the mend ' says simon cowell zsa zsa gabor taken to hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened the battle for berlin 's gardens enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened robbie williams weds ayda field world sauna event finalist dies north korea ' holds southern boat ' duchess tries to avoid bankruptcy couple are murdered in pakistan the battle for berlin 's gardens mia cuts set after stage invasion dozens killed in china landslides no 10 rejects child milk cut idea blog reveals medic 's dedication most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened unnamed page unnamed page flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep how bees perform perfect landing iraq 's rare wild animal trade honeybee mob suffocates giant hornet ' i will miss her love for life ' one-minute world news obama : us car industry ' patriotic ' unnamed page most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 47,600 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news andy abraham will perform even if at the eurovision song contest it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement andy gets eurovision advice from old hands scooch and cheryl baker from 1981 winners bucks fizz he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says .
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
abraham is used to being recognised by fans but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
eurovision 2008 reporter 's log all the news and views from the eurovision arena song contest latest emotional night for fans russia scoops eurovision victory wogan ' may quit eurovision role ' in pictures : song contest 2008 the final scoreboard belgrade build-up what do the locals think ?
meet presenter jovana jankovic interview : andy abraham talking shop : carrie grant comic offerings head challenge bbc eurovision fans ' vote sweden tipped to win eurovision eurovision vote : top 10 the fans ' final scoreboard the winners and losers russia : 1st ukraine : 2nd greece : 3rd germany : joint 24th poland : joint 24th uk : 25th -lrb- last -rrb- related bbc links bbc eurovision site related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 reschedule us and canada dates cheryl ' on the mend ' says simon cowell zsa zsa gabor taken to hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened rwanda 's 100 days of genocide most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened live : chile mine rescue joy as chile miners reach surface porn studios close over hiv scare the big picture : lightning strike asteroid pile-up makes a picture pentagon warns on us gay ruling germans break silence over immigration new nose for taliban victim aisha in pictures : first chile miners rescued china-brazil match ends in brawl most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news first rescuer reaches mine first chile miner rescued after 69 days joy as chile miners reach surface serbian fans arrested after euro qualifier match second chile miner 's euphoria at surface one-minute world news chileans celebrate miners ' release david frum : republicans not ' offering solutions ' one-minute world news most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 81,757 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links merlin strictly full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news andy abraham will perform even if at the eurovision song contest it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement andy gets eurovision advice from old hands scooch and cheryl baker from 1981 winners bucks fizz he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says .
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
abraham is used to being recognised by fans but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
eurovision 2008 reporter 's log all the news and views from the eurovision arena song contest latest emotional night for fans russia scoops eurovision victory wogan ' may quit eurovision role ' in pictures : song contest 2008 the final scoreboard belgrade build-up what do the locals think ?
meet presenter jovana jankovic interview : andy abraham talking shop : carrie grant comic offerings head challenge bbc eurovision fans ' vote sweden tipped to win eurovision eurovision vote : top 10 the fans ' final scoreboard the winners and losers russia : 1st ukraine : 2nd greece : 3rd germany : joint 24th poland : joint 24th uk : 25th -lrb- last -rrb- related bbc links bbc eurovision site related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories del toro ' takes leave ' of hobbit shrek beats sex and the city film homer is ' greatest tv character ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened e-mail error ends up on road sign ancestor 's dna code reconstructed life inside the north korean bubble has israel lost lone muslim ally turkey ?
ivy 's climbing secrets revealed most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened witnesses cast doubt on israel 's convoy raid account bp prepares new bid to curb spill ex-us vp al gore splits from wife why did german president resign ?
e-mail error ends up on road sign senior al-qaeda leader ' killed ' cage-fighter jailed for £ 53m raid a space odyssey of the mind homer named greatest tv character cancun mayor faces drugs charges most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened israel releases ' footage of flotilla raid ' glimpses of real north korean rural life behind the facade israeli navy storms gaza aid ship pakistan lake threatens to burst one-minute world news storm plagues obama 's memorial speech activist : ' we never saw any knives ' lost dog in eight-mile trek home man jailed over â £ 53m cash robbery african football shorts : the sex worker most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis horst , why ?
german president 's shock resignation a blow to merkel gomp / arts the woman who brought giant spiders to london day in pictures a selection of pictures from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 133,029 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- entertainment -pipe- from binman to belgrade 's stage british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment arts & culture also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:24 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:24 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version from binman to belgrade 's stage by fiona pryor entertainment reporter , bbc news andy abraham will perform even if at the eurovision song contest it is not every day a former dustbin man changes his career to be a professional singer , but andy abraham has successfully managed to do that .
since the 43-year-old melted the nation 's hearts performing hits like when i fall in love on x factor in 2005 , he has turned his life around .
despite coming second to shayne ward in the itv talent show , abraham has proved his talent , releasing two hit albums .
and after being chosen to represent the uk at the eurovision song contest two months ago , he is about to perform to the biggest audience of his career so far .
but the father-of-two remains relaxed and confident about the contest .
" i feel really good at the moment .
i 'm raring to go , ready to get out there , " he says .
" i 'm not the type of person who rehearses relentlessly .
i think if you go overboard it can somehow seep out .
" i like to do just a set amount and go away from it , and feel fresh when i 'm performing the next time . "
please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement andy gets eurovision advice from old hands scooch and cheryl baker from 1981 winners bucks fizz he insists despite being in great demand and having sharon osbourne as a text buddy , fame has not changed him .
" my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality , lets put it that way .
even though i fly on cloud nine i 've got long legs , " he laughs .
rags to riches the singer admits that before he entered the x factor , he never would have expected to be where he is now .
" you can dream about it , but it 's very difficult to really feel that you 're going to be on stage singing to millions of people .
" i think slowly , slowly each dream is being eroded and reality has taken over .
i 'm kind of hoping that maybe one day i 'll get to sing at wembley stadium , " he says .
my feet are firmly on the ground .
i 'm very in tune with reality andy abraham looking every inch the pop star wearing dark sunglasses , he is recognised several times by passing fans during the interview .
afterwards he is approached by someone for an autograph , which he signs without a moment 's hesitation .
the star admits it is something that happens a lot and even his son jacob has been asked for an autograph .
grateful for every opportunity that has come his way , the star is keen to shake off the memory of his former day job .
" i did the whole bin thing for eight months before the x factor , " he says .
" it 's a tag that has kind of followed me , so i 'm hoping to break that tag .
slowly it will erode away and the performer will come out of that . "
' level-headed ' when asked if he thinks his story is a classic rags to riches tale , he laughs : " i do n't know about the riches yet .
i 'm working on that i really am .
i 'm a lot better off than i was , but i 'm not rich by all means , nowhere near that .
" that will come with successful albums and a longer career - it takes a long time to achieve that . "
it is not just him who has been affected by his success , as abraham admits that in the beginning his children had a hard time from their peers .
" i think children sometimes can be cruel but at the same time they can enjoy the fun of a friend having a famous parent .
it kind of swings both ways , " he says .
abraham is used to being recognised by fans but both abraham and his wife , denise , also his manager , are working hard to keep their children grounded .
in fact , keen to protect them from the blaring eye of the media , abraham has made the decision to keep the children at home for school , only taking denise out to serbia .
" they 're staying level-headed .
they do realise they have to work very hard to get what they want , " he says .
" i 've had to do it for the first half of my life and now the second half i seem to be reaping the rewards of a lot of luck and a bit of talent and help from the british public . "
with a third album on the way and the exposure abraham expects to come hand in hand with eurovision , he is refreshingly honest that it could all end tomorrow .
" i know within myself that everything can end quite easily .
but as long as i 'm happy , whether i 'm successful or not , if i 'm happy and i do n't have any problems and my family are healthy and fine , i 'm ok . "
the final of the eurovision song contest takes place on saturday and begins on bbc one at 2000 bst .
andy abraham performs second in the running order .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
eurovision 2008 reporter 's log all the news and views from the eurovision arena song contest latest emotional night for fans russia scoops eurovision victory wogan ' may quit eurovision role ' in pictures : song contest 2008 the final scoreboard belgrade build-up what do the locals think ?
meet presenter jovana jankovic interview : andy abraham talking shop : carrie grant comic offerings head challenge bbc eurovision fans ' vote sweden tipped to win eurovision eurovision vote : top 10 the fans ' final scoreboard the winners and losers russia : 1st ukraine : 2nd greece : 3rd germany : joint 24th poland : joint 24th uk : 25th -lrb- last -rrb- related bbc links bbc eurovision site related internet links andy abraham - myspace eurovision song contest the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top entertainment stories u2 reschedule us and canada dates cheryl ' on the mend ' says simon cowell zsa zsa gabor taken to hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened guyana country profile most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened renault warns of threat to assets global spam levels suddenly fall furore over ' censored ' huck finn homeless man with radio voice given second chance starbucks unveils revamped logo day in pictures : 6 january 2011 china mulls parents ' visit duty china stealth plane ' years away ' boy ' chased and stabbed ' in park pakistan reverses fuel price rise most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened air passengers thwart hijack attempt homeless man 's radio voice is a hit swedes ' want king to abdicate ' rail announcer 's ' sexy ' accent will this ship revolutionise the skies ?
one-minute world news polar bears get better of spycams windows uses mobile phone chips more dead birds fall from us sky bee gee ' saddened ' by pop industry most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 92,757 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' nag ' who won her party 's respect british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:28 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:28 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' nag ' who won her party 's respect andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website scotland 's national bird .
no , not annabel goldie herself but a reference to one of her more famous campaigns .
it is a tough job leading the scottish conservatives - the perception from some sections of the public that the party has no future north of the border and bitter memories of the poll tax dispute all serves to undermine you .
however , since taking stewardship of the party during a time of internal strife , miss goldie has managed to demonstrate how smaller parties can bring about change at the heart of government .
miss goldie - both a formidable personality and much-liked public figure - was born in glasgow in 1950 and attended greenock academy before embarking on a legal career .
but a succession of prominent roles in the conservative party led to her arrival at holyrood in the first parliament and her appointment as scottish tory deputy leader .
the matronly miss goldie established herself as a skilled debater and , as an example of her dry wit and self-deprecating humour , once challenged wendy alexander , a minister at the time , with the phrase " as one spinster to another " .
in 2004 , the rspb put her up to argue the case that the golden eagle should be adopted as the national bird of scotland .
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign miss goldie , a keen twitcher , began her pitch by telling a scottish parliament committee : " to avoid confusion , it 's the golden eagle we want as the national bird , not me . "
one of her greatest tests came when she found herself as leader in 2005 , in the wake of the so-called " taxigate " affair , during which time mr mcletchie stepped down from the top job .
soon after , the then tory msp brian monteith admitted he had briefed against the former leader and subsequently left his party 's holyrood group , and parliament itself in the election to follow .
miss goldie declared the wheels were back on the wagon and she was " the nag hitched up to tow it " , while warning that disloyalty and disobedience would not be tolerated .
" i think you may take it matron 's handbag will be in hyper-action , " she said as her appointment was confirmed .
but there was further trouble ahead when the 2007 scottish tory annual conference was dogged by a leaked memo , written by the party 's only scottish mp , david mundell .
' community convicts ' it lamented the lack of " thinkers " at holyrood and singled out miss goldie for criticism .
but tory veteran bill walker paid tribute to her at the opening of the conference and her deputy , murdo fraser , stated : " everyone - everyone - in this party owes annabel goldie a debt of gratitude for the steadfast leadership she has provided over the past 16 months . "
even uk conservative leader david cameron came to her aid when he said it was better for some people wanting to offer him advice to keep it to themselves .
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign .
launching her party 's manifesto before anyone else , she immediately ruled out any chance of a coalition deal - claiming eight years of a labour / lib dem pact had done little to enhance the public perception of devolution .
her entrenched position paid off and the tories were able to extract several concessions from the scottish government - including drugs policy and business rates - in return for supporting its first budget .
but miss goldie still criticised the government in areas where the two sides disagreed , including her description of snp policy to expand non-prison sentences as " convicts in the community " .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservatives the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories high scots nhs spend ' no benefit ' snp alcohol plans face key vote cargo plane ' hit deer on runway ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened feeling grumpy ' is good for you ' tea ' healthier ' drink than water kingsolver crowned orange winner eco-village ' is model for us all ' a bad reputation most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna study unlocks jewish diaspora iran dismisses new un sanctions google accused of criminal intent mexican father ' killed children ' ' abuse rife ' in tribal pakistan is that woman pregnant or fat ?
top prize for swiss solar pioneer afghan ' wedding blast ' kills 39 obama says gaza ' unsustainable ' boys deny younger sister 's rape most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan new cctv footage of haiti quake one-minute world news snake found under van 's bonnet sex and the city 2 reviewed by mark kermode sri lanka 's child soldiers sa fans go ' crazy ' at team parade mexico struggles with ' war on drugs ' corden in spat with sir patrick obama says sanctions send ' unmistakable message ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis your ideas 18 ways readers would have tackled the oil spill day in pictures most striking images from around the world from bbc sport > > mystery men the secretive world of n korean football most popular now most popular now -pipe- 19,757 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' nag ' who won her party 's respect accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:28 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:28 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' nag ' who won her party 's respect andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website scotland 's national bird .
no , not annabel goldie herself but a reference to one of her more famous campaigns .
it is a tough job leading the scottish conservatives - the perception from some sections of the public that the party has no future north of the border and bitter memories of the poll tax dispute all serves to undermine you .
however , since taking stewardship of the party during a time of internal strife , miss goldie has managed to demonstrate how smaller parties can bring about change at the heart of government .
miss goldie - both a formidable personality and much-liked public figure - was born in glasgow in 1950 and attended greenock academy before embarking on a legal career .
but a succession of prominent roles in the conservative party led to her arrival at holyrood in the first parliament and her appointment as scottish tory deputy leader .
the matronly miss goldie established herself as a skilled debater and , as an example of her dry wit and self-deprecating humour , once challenged wendy alexander , a minister at the time , with the phrase " as one spinster to another " .
in 2004 , the rspb put her up to argue the case that the golden eagle should be adopted as the national bird of scotland .
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign miss goldie , a keen twitcher , began her pitch by telling a scottish parliament committee : " to avoid confusion , it 's the golden eagle we want as the national bird , not me . "
one of her greatest tests came when she found herself as leader in 2005 , in the wake of the so-called " taxigate " affair , during which time mr mcletchie stepped down from the top job .
soon after , the then tory msp brian monteith admitted he had briefed against the former leader and subsequently left his party 's holyrood group , and parliament itself in the election to follow .
miss goldie declared the wheels were back on the wagon and she was " the nag hitched up to tow it " , while warning that disloyalty and disobedience would not be tolerated .
" i think you may take it matron 's handbag will be in hyper-action , " she said as her appointment was confirmed .
but there was further trouble ahead when the 2007 scottish tory annual conference was dogged by a leaked memo , written by the party 's only scottish mp , david mundell .
' community convicts ' it lamented the lack of " thinkers " at holyrood and singled out miss goldie for criticism .
but tory veteran bill walker paid tribute to her at the opening of the conference and her deputy , murdo fraser , stated : " everyone - everyone - in this party owes annabel goldie a debt of gratitude for the steadfast leadership she has provided over the past 16 months . "
even uk conservative leader david cameron came to her aid when he said it was better for some people wanting to offer him advice to keep it to themselves .
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign .
launching her party 's manifesto before anyone else , she immediately ruled out any chance of a coalition deal - claiming eight years of a labour / lib dem pact had done little to enhance the public perception of devolution .
her entrenched position paid off and the tories were able to extract several concessions from the scottish government - including drugs policy and business rates - in return for supporting its first budget .
but miss goldie still criticised the government in areas where the two sides disagreed , including her description of snp policy to expand non-prison sentences as " convicts in the community " .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservatives the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories more snow shuts schools and roads new power line approval expected big chill to last two more weeks most popular stories now shared read watched / listened plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' bbc - piece of history at page 's house academic fraud ' booming ' in china yemen ' arrests al-qaeda suspects ' g-spot ' does n't appear to exist ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened snow disrupts schools and travel pornographic videos flood youtube australia downplays india warning obama given intelligence pledge japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat google phone to protect ad empire pi calculated to ' record number ' explosive planted in airport test china rejects iran un sanctions atom bomb survivor dies , aged 93 most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened swiss avalanche death toll rises runaway pig sparks road chase us state reviews shackling laws porn videos floods youtube viewers ' videos of snow scenes europe ' will continue to shiver ' aerial view of the snow snow chaos across the uk pigs run loose after lorry crash google unveils nexus one handset most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland empire protection why google needs a new mobile phone most popular now most popular now -pipe- 121,729 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' nag ' who won her party 's respect accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:28 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:28 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' nag ' who won her party 's respect andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website scotland 's national bird .
no , not annabel goldie herself but a reference to one of her more famous campaigns .
it is a tough job leading the scottish conservatives - the perception from some sections of the public that the party has no future north of the border and bitter memories of the poll tax dispute all serves to undermine you .
however , since taking stewardship of the party during a time of internal strife , miss goldie has managed to demonstrate how smaller parties can bring about change at the heart of government .
miss goldie - both a formidable personality and much-liked public figure - was born in glasgow in 1950 and attended greenock academy before embarking on a legal career .
but a succession of prominent roles in the conservative party led to her arrival at holyrood in the first parliament and her appointment as scottish tory deputy leader .
the matronly miss goldie established herself as a skilled debater and , as an example of her dry wit and self-deprecating humour , once challenged wendy alexander , a minister at the time , with the phrase " as one spinster to another " .
in 2004 , the rspb put her up to argue the case that the golden eagle should be adopted as the national bird of scotland .
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign miss goldie , a keen twitcher , began her pitch by telling a scottish parliament committee : " to avoid confusion , it 's the golden eagle we want as the national bird , not me . "
one of her greatest tests came when she found herself as leader in 2005 , in the wake of the so-called " taxigate " affair , during which time mr mcletchie stepped down from the top job .
soon after , the then tory msp brian monteith admitted he had briefed against the former leader and subsequently left his party 's holyrood group , and parliament itself in the election to follow .
miss goldie declared the wheels were back on the wagon and she was " the nag hitched up to tow it " , while warning that disloyalty and disobedience would not be tolerated .
" i think you may take it matron 's handbag will be in hyper-action , " she said as her appointment was confirmed .
but there was further trouble ahead when the 2007 scottish tory annual conference was dogged by a leaked memo , written by the party 's only scottish mp , david mundell .
' community convicts ' it lamented the lack of " thinkers " at holyrood and singled out miss goldie for criticism .
but tory veteran bill walker paid tribute to her at the opening of the conference and her deputy , murdo fraser , stated : " everyone - everyone - in this party owes annabel goldie a debt of gratitude for the steadfast leadership she has provided over the past 16 months . "
even uk conservative leader david cameron came to her aid when he said it was better for some people wanting to offer him advice to keep it to themselves .
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign .
launching her party 's manifesto before anyone else , she immediately ruled out any chance of a coalition deal - claiming eight years of a labour / lib dem pact had done little to enhance the public perception of devolution .
her entrenched position paid off and the tories were able to extract several concessions from the scottish government - including drugs policy and business rates - in return for supporting its first budget .
but miss goldie still criticised the government in areas where the two sides disagreed , including her description of snp policy to expand non-prison sentences as " convicts in the community " .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservatives the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories bid to tackle ' obesity time bomb ' action call over hospital hygiene jail term for drunk train driver most popular stories now shared read watched / listened palm oil products and the weekly shop man in hiding betrayed by pet dog topless tobogganing in germany frog reveals secret of monogamy obama unveils new healthcare plan most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog day in pictures threat from e-waste ' mountains ' odeon confirms wonderland boycott tv man gave up dead lover 's name oil drilling starts in falklands us-led advance in marjah ' steady ' guilty plea in new york bomb plot swiss man surrenders to libyans most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver one-minute world news close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music fresh madeira landslide warning israeli drone ' can reach iran ' highlights from the bafta awards father on false paedophilia facebook posts ' scene of absolute devastation ' how british army is tackling ied threat most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers day in pictures eye-catching images from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 42,457 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' nag ' who won her party 's respect british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:28 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:28 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' nag ' who won her party 's respect andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website scotland 's national bird .
no , not annabel goldie herself but a reference to one of her more famous campaigns .
it is a tough job leading the scottish conservatives - the perception from some sections of the public that the party has no future north of the border and bitter memories of the poll tax dispute all serves to undermine you .
however , since taking stewardship of the party during a time of internal strife , miss goldie has managed to demonstrate how smaller parties can bring about change at the heart of government .
miss goldie - both a formidable personality and much-liked public figure - was born in glasgow in 1950 and attended greenock academy before embarking on a legal career .
but a succession of prominent roles in the conservative party led to her arrival at holyrood in the first parliament and her appointment as scottish tory deputy leader .
the matronly miss goldie established herself as a skilled debater and , as an example of her dry wit and self-deprecating humour , once challenged wendy alexander , a minister at the time , with the phrase " as one spinster to another " .
in 2004 , the rspb put her up to argue the case that the golden eagle should be adopted as the national bird of scotland .
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign miss goldie , a keen twitcher , began her pitch by telling a scottish parliament committee : " to avoid confusion , it 's the golden eagle we want as the national bird , not me . "
one of her greatest tests came when she found herself as leader in 2005 , in the wake of the so-called " taxigate " affair , during which time mr mcletchie stepped down from the top job .
soon after , the then tory msp brian monteith admitted he had briefed against the former leader and subsequently left his party 's holyrood group , and parliament itself in the election to follow .
miss goldie declared the wheels were back on the wagon and she was " the nag hitched up to tow it " , while warning that disloyalty and disobedience would not be tolerated .
" i think you may take it matron 's handbag will be in hyper-action , " she said as her appointment was confirmed .
but there was further trouble ahead when the 2007 scottish tory annual conference was dogged by a leaked memo , written by the party 's only scottish mp , david mundell .
' community convicts ' it lamented the lack of " thinkers " at holyrood and singled out miss goldie for criticism .
but tory veteran bill walker paid tribute to her at the opening of the conference and her deputy , murdo fraser , stated : " everyone - everyone - in this party owes annabel goldie a debt of gratitude for the steadfast leadership she has provided over the past 16 months . "
even uk conservative leader david cameron came to her aid when he said it was better for some people wanting to offer him advice to keep it to themselves .
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign .
launching her party 's manifesto before anyone else , she immediately ruled out any chance of a coalition deal - claiming eight years of a labour / lib dem pact had done little to enhance the public perception of devolution .
her entrenched position paid off and the tories were able to extract several concessions from the scottish government - including drugs policy and business rates - in return for supporting its first budget .
but miss goldie still criticised the government in areas where the two sides disagreed , including her description of snp policy to expand non-prison sentences as " convicts in the community " .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
scottish tory conference ' making a difference ' scottish tory leader annabel goldie says her party is delivering policies ' i want to be pm of all the uk ' tory calls burma 's leaders ' evil ' tories ' do n't suck up ' to the snp scottish tory conference agenda profile : scots tory front bench party faithful on conference trail quiz time : scottish tories analysis / background political editor brian taylor 's blog ' nag ' who won her party 's respect ' unholy alliance ' pays dividends audio / video news conference : day two -lsb- pm -rsb- conference : day two -lsb- am -rsb- cameron 's conference speech q & a with annabel goldie msp conference catch-up scots tories snp scots labour scots lib dems related bbc links scottish politics related internet links scottish conservatives the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories scots unemployment rate increases police name three road crash dead man tried to kill disabled wife most popular stories now shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem seychelles haven of the giant tortoise most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem shot us politician ' doing well ' how giffords survived the shot gates expresses chinese concern seychelles haven of the giant tortoise beckhams expecting fourth child iran plane crashes ' killing 72 ' bullets sent to celtic manager rihanna makes history in uk chart pm attacks ' murky ' football world most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' i played dead to escape gunman ' close-up : azerbaijan 's oil baths technology to keep elderly safe sudan singer campaigns for split turning body heat into energy rooks reveal remarkable tool use rook fashions hook from wire close-up : argentina 's football rivalry microsoft hints at kinect pc support the cap used to slow the gulf leak most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 35,314 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- ' nag ' who won her party 's respect bbc news / scotland graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 07:28 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:28 uk ' nag ' who won her party 's respect andrew black political reporter , bbc scotland news website scotland 's national bird .
no , not annabel goldie herself but a reference to one of her more famous campaigns .
it is a tough job leading the scottish conservatives - the perception from some sections of the public that the party has no future north of the border and bitter memories of the poll tax dispute all serves to undermine you .
however , since taking stewardship of the party during a time of internal strife , miss goldie has managed to demonstrate how smaller parties can bring about change at the heart of government .
miss goldie - both a formidable personality and much-liked public figure - was born in glasgow in 1950 and attended greenock academy before embarking on a legal career .
but a succession of prominent roles in the conservative party led to her arrival at holyrood in the first parliament and her appointment as scottish tory deputy leader .
the matronly miss goldie established herself as a skilled debater and , as an example of her dry wit and self-deprecating humour , once challenged wendy alexander , a minister at the time , with the phrase " as one spinster to another " .
in 2004 , the rspb put her up to argue the case that the golden eagle should be adopted as the national bird of scotland . "
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign " miss goldie , a keen twitcher , began her pitch by telling a scottish parliament committee : " to avoid confusion , it 's the golden eagle we want as the national bird , not me . "
one of her greatest tests came when she found herself as leader in 2005 , in the wake of the so-called " taxigate " affair , during which time mr mcletchie stepped down from the top job .
soon after , the then tory msp brian monteith admitted he had briefed against the former leader and subsequently left his party 's holyrood group , and parliament itself in the election to follow .
miss goldie declared the wheels were back on the wagon and she was " the nag hitched up to tow it " , while warning that disloyalty and disobedience would not be tolerated .
" i think you may take it matron 's handbag will be in hyper-action , " she said as her appointment was confirmed .
but there was further trouble ahead when the 2007 scottish tory annual conference was dogged by a leaked memo , written by the party 's only scottish mp , david mundell .
' community convicts ' it lamented the lack of " thinkers " at holyrood and singled out miss goldie for criticism .
but tory veteran bill walker paid tribute to her at the opening of the conference and her deputy , murdo fraser , stated : " everyone - everyone - in this party owes annabel goldie a debt of gratitude for the steadfast leadership she has provided over the past 16 months . "
even uk conservative leader david cameron came to her aid when he said it was better for some people wanting to offer him advice to keep it to themselves .
putting internal troubles behind her , miss goldie - a die-hard fan of bbc scotland soap river city - threw herself into the holyrood election campaign .
launching her party 's manifesto before anyone else , she immediately ruled out any chance of a coalition deal - claiming eight years of a labour / lib dem pact had done little to enhance the public perception of devolution .
her entrenched position paid off and the tories were able to extract several concessions from the scottish government - including drugs policy and business rates - in return for supporting its first budget .
but miss goldie still criticised the government in areas where the two sides disagreed , including her description of snp policy to expand non-prison sentences as " convicts in the community " .
e-mail this to a friend related internet links scottish conservatives scottish politics the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- smokers tend to give up in groups british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:46 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:46 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version smokers tend to give up in groups u.s. researchers studied changes in smoking habits over three decades giving up smoking is contagious - people are more likely to quit in groups than alone , a study suggests .
the research reveals one person 's decision to stop smoking often spreads through friends , family and work mates , leading them to quit as well .
the closer the relationship , the greater the influence on the person giving up .
the u.s research , in the new england journal of medicine , looked at the habits of more than 12,000 people .
we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once nicholas christakis , author of the report studying changes over a 30 year period , the researchers found social relationships had a crucial role in deciding whether someone started smoking - and then whether they quit .
the report also claimed that smoking was changing the nature of society .
where once smokers and non-smokers mixed freely , it said the two groups now tended to form " separate clusters " , and suggested smokers were being pushed to the margins of society .
" we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once , " said researcher professor nicholas christakis , based at the harvard medical school .
" so if there 's a change in the zeitgeist of this social network , like a cultural shift , a whole group of people who are connected but who might not know each other all quit together . "
other factors professor christakis said geography did not appear to play a role because smoking behaviours spread between contacts living miles apart and separate households .
" rather , the closeness of the relationship in the network was key to the spread of smoking behaviours , " he said .
for instance when a husband or wife quit , it decreased the chance of their spouse smoking by 67 % .
when a sibling quit , it reduced the chance of smoking by 25 % among their brothers and sisters .
a friend quitting decreased the chance of smoking by 36 % among their friends .
have your say i stopped smoking after 40 years by saying ' that 's the end of that ' - it 's not rocket science .
doug , nottingham send us your comments education was also a factor .
the higher the educational levels among the contacts , the greater the influence on smoking behaviour .
professor christakis said : " we are more influenced by the quitting behaviour of others if those people are highly educated .
" to add a further twist , we are also more influenced by others if we ourselves are more educated . "
empathy dr martin hagger , a health psychologist from the university of nottingham said social support is a key factor in giving up smoking .
" people like to be in the same boat .
people like to empathise with each other .
it happens with other health behaviours such as getting fit - support from people close to you really helps . "
dr hagger said government initiatives such as putting tax on cigarettes or banning smoking in public places can only go so far .
if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity dr martin hagger , university of nottingham he said these need to be part of a coordinated approach to change behaviour , but he advises those wanting to quit smoking to do it in a group .
" if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity and you are more likely to go along with what is expected in the group .
" it 's not so important in the early stages of giving up smoking but if the social network is consistent in supporting the attempt to quit then it is much more likely a person will not relapse back , " he added .
the study , funded by the us national institute on aging , based the research on a community based study of 12,067 people between 1971 and 2003 .
the group ranged in age from 21 to 70 and people smoking one or more cigarettes a day were deemed smokers .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also why smokers struggle to give up 04 apr 05 -pipe- health genetic link to smoking addiction 02 apr 08 -pipe- health clinics help smokers quit tobacco 20 feb 08 -pipe- suffolk related bbc links bbc health - tips to give up smoking related internet links the new england journal of medicine national institute on aging department of health the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened the battle for berlin 's gardens your news , your pictures enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened world sauna event finalist dies robbie williams ' marries ayda field ' north korea ' holds southern boat ' duchess tries to avoid bankruptcy no 10 rejects child milk cut idea the battle for berlin 's gardens dozens killed in china landslides in pictures : finnish pursuits wanted man held over 2003 murders bono bounces back after surgery most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse ' a river of mud ' in gansu province ' dumpster dip ' cools new yorkers new cabin crew put through their paces iraq 's rare wild animal trade ' i will miss her love for life ' close-up : peru 's beer-drinking ritual flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep close-up : voodoo in florida 's little haiti most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 42,229 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- smokers tend to give up in groups british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:46 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:46 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version smokers tend to give up in groups u.s. researchers studied changes in smoking habits over three decades giving up smoking is contagious - people are more likely to quit in groups than alone , a study suggests .
the research reveals one person 's decision to stop smoking often spreads through friends , family and work mates , leading them to quit as well .
the closer the relationship , the greater the influence on the person giving up .
the u.s research , in the new england journal of medicine , looked at the habits of more than 12,000 people .
we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once nicholas christakis , author of the report studying changes over a 30 year period , the researchers found social relationships had a crucial role in deciding whether someone started smoking - and then whether they quit .
the report also claimed that smoking was changing the nature of society .
where once smokers and non-smokers mixed freely , it said the two groups now tended to form " separate clusters " , and suggested smokers were being pushed to the margins of society .
" we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once , " said researcher professor nicholas christakis , based at the harvard medical school .
" so if there 's a change in the zeitgeist of this social network , like a cultural shift , a whole group of people who are connected but who might not know each other all quit together . "
other factors professor christakis said geography did not appear to play a role because smoking behaviours spread between contacts living miles apart and separate households .
" rather , the closeness of the relationship in the network was key to the spread of smoking behaviours , " he said .
for instance when a husband or wife quit , it decreased the chance of their spouse smoking by 67 % .
when a sibling quit , it reduced the chance of smoking by 25 % among their brothers and sisters .
a friend quitting decreased the chance of smoking by 36 % among their friends .
have your say i stopped smoking after 40 years by saying ' that 's the end of that ' - it 's not rocket science .
doug , nottingham send us your comments education was also a factor .
the higher the educational levels among the contacts , the greater the influence on smoking behaviour .
professor christakis said : " we are more influenced by the quitting behaviour of others if those people are highly educated .
" to add a further twist , we are also more influenced by others if we ourselves are more educated . "
empathy dr martin hagger , a health psychologist from the university of nottingham said social support is a key factor in giving up smoking .
" people like to be in the same boat .
people like to empathise with each other .
it happens with other health behaviours such as getting fit - support from people close to you really helps . "
dr hagger said government initiatives such as putting tax on cigarettes or banning smoking in public places can only go so far .
if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity dr martin hagger , university of nottingham he said these need to be part of a coordinated approach to change behaviour , but he advises those wanting to quit smoking to do it in a group .
" if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity and you are more likely to go along with what is expected in the group .
" it 's not so important in the early stages of giving up smoking but if the social network is consistent in supporting the attempt to quit then it is much more likely a person will not relapse back , " he added .
the study , funded by the us national institute on aging , based the research on a community based study of 12,067 people between 1971 and 2003 .
the group ranged in age from 21 to 70 and people smoking one or more cigarettes a day were deemed smokers .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also why smokers struggle to give up 04 apr 05 -pipe- health genetic link to smoking addiction 02 apr 08 -pipe- health clinics help smokers quit tobacco 20 feb 08 -pipe- suffolk related bbc links bbc health - tips to give up smoking related internet links the new england journal of medicine national institute on aging department of health the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened the plight of america 's new poor most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' explosives ' damaged japan ship japan marks atom bomb anniversary india minister breaks his silence lockerbie bomber cancer ' no fake ' cameron and zardari to hold talks dense wildfire smog grips moscow italy on the brink of new nuclear era wyclef jean files election papers database of children switched off rbs half-year profits hit £ 1.1bn most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened flesh eating ' aliens ' from deep wine vending machines launch in us wyclef on his presidential ambitions police ' smash pensioner 's car ' where has all the oil gone ?
monty python team caught in early home movie ceremony to mark hiroshima 65 years on unnamed page ' poo-powered ' car hits the road ' no choice but to return to nuclear ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 66,029 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- smokers tend to give up in groups british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:46 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:46 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version smokers tend to give up in groups u.s. researchers studied changes in smoking habits over three decades giving up smoking is contagious - people are more likely to quit in groups than alone , a study suggests .
the research reveals one person 's decision to stop smoking often spreads through friends , family and work mates , leading them to quit as well .
the closer the relationship , the greater the influence on the person giving up .
the u.s research , in the new england journal of medicine , looked at the habits of more than 12,000 people .
we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once nicholas christakis , author of the report studying changes over a 30 year period , the researchers found social relationships had a crucial role in deciding whether someone started smoking - and then whether they quit .
the report also claimed that smoking was changing the nature of society .
where once smokers and non-smokers mixed freely , it said the two groups now tended to form " separate clusters " , and suggested smokers were being pushed to the margins of society .
" we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once , " said researcher professor nicholas christakis , based at the harvard medical school .
" so if there 's a change in the zeitgeist of this social network , like a cultural shift , a whole group of people who are connected but who might not know each other all quit together . "
other factors professor christakis said geography did not appear to play a role because smoking behaviours spread between contacts living miles apart and separate households .
" rather , the closeness of the relationship in the network was key to the spread of smoking behaviours , " he said .
for instance when a husband or wife quit , it decreased the chance of their spouse smoking by 67 % .
when a sibling quit , it reduced the chance of smoking by 25 % among their brothers and sisters .
a friend quitting decreased the chance of smoking by 36 % among their friends .
have your say i stopped smoking after 40 years by saying ' that 's the end of that ' - it 's not rocket science .
doug , nottingham send us your comments education was also a factor .
the higher the educational levels among the contacts , the greater the influence on smoking behaviour .
professor christakis said : " we are more influenced by the quitting behaviour of others if those people are highly educated .
" to add a further twist , we are also more influenced by others if we ourselves are more educated . "
empathy dr martin hagger , a health psychologist from the university of nottingham said social support is a key factor in giving up smoking .
" people like to be in the same boat .
people like to empathise with each other .
it happens with other health behaviours such as getting fit - support from people close to you really helps . "
dr hagger said government initiatives such as putting tax on cigarettes or banning smoking in public places can only go so far .
if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity dr martin hagger , university of nottingham he said these need to be part of a coordinated approach to change behaviour , but he advises those wanting to quit smoking to do it in a group .
" if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity and you are more likely to go along with what is expected in the group .
" it 's not so important in the early stages of giving up smoking but if the social network is consistent in supporting the attempt to quit then it is much more likely a person will not relapse back , " he added .
the study , funded by the us national institute on aging , based the research on a community based study of 12,067 people between 1971 and 2003 .
the group ranged in age from 21 to 70 and people smoking one or more cigarettes a day were deemed smokers .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also why smokers struggle to give up 04 apr 05 -pipe- health genetic link to smoking addiction 02 apr 08 -pipe- health clinics help smokers quit tobacco 20 feb 08 -pipe- suffolk related bbc links bbc health - tips to give up smoking related internet links the new england journal of medicine national institute on aging department of health the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened country profile : brazil can the ' cuban-jubans ' rebuild south sudan ?
most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened robbie williams weds ayda field turkey groom kills wedding guests indonesia cleric in terror arrest eurosceptic swiss count their blessings flash floods hit central europe netanyahu faces flotilla inquiry rescue effort for china landslide world sauna event finalist dies venezuela-colombia talks agreed hague test for campbell evidence most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' dumpster dip ' cools new yorkers fleeing a village destroyed by floods flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep rain triggers landslides and floods in china residents ' ordeals in flood-hit europe tornado destroys minnesota farmhouse one-minute world news monty python team caught in early home movie close-up : swimming in berne 's fast-flowing city river orphaned baby otter nursed back to health most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 32,371 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- smokers tend to give up in groups british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:46 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:46 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version smokers tend to give up in groups u.s. researchers studied changes in smoking habits over three decades giving up smoking is contagious - people are more likely to quit in groups than alone , a study suggests .
the research reveals one person 's decision to stop smoking often spreads through friends , family and work mates , leading them to quit as well .
the closer the relationship , the greater the influence on the person giving up .
the u.s research , in the new england journal of medicine , looked at the habits of more than 12,000 people .
we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once nicholas christakis , author of the report studying changes over a 30 year period , the researchers found social relationships had a crucial role in deciding whether someone started smoking - and then whether they quit .
the report also claimed that smoking was changing the nature of society .
where once smokers and non-smokers mixed freely , it said the two groups now tended to form " separate clusters " , and suggested smokers were being pushed to the margins of society .
" we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once , " said researcher professor nicholas christakis , based at the harvard medical school .
" so if there 's a change in the zeitgeist of this social network , like a cultural shift , a whole group of people who are connected but who might not know each other all quit together . "
other factors professor christakis said geography did not appear to play a role because smoking behaviours spread between contacts living miles apart and separate households .
" rather , the closeness of the relationship in the network was key to the spread of smoking behaviours , " he said .
for instance when a husband or wife quit , it decreased the chance of their spouse smoking by 67 % .
when a sibling quit , it reduced the chance of smoking by 25 % among their brothers and sisters .
a friend quitting decreased the chance of smoking by 36 % among their friends .
have your say i stopped smoking after 40 years by saying ' that 's the end of that ' - it 's not rocket science .
doug , nottingham send us your comments education was also a factor .
the higher the educational levels among the contacts , the greater the influence on smoking behaviour .
professor christakis said : " we are more influenced by the quitting behaviour of others if those people are highly educated .
" to add a further twist , we are also more influenced by others if we ourselves are more educated . "
empathy dr martin hagger , a health psychologist from the university of nottingham said social support is a key factor in giving up smoking .
" people like to be in the same boat .
people like to empathise with each other .
it happens with other health behaviours such as getting fit - support from people close to you really helps . "
dr hagger said government initiatives such as putting tax on cigarettes or banning smoking in public places can only go so far .
if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity dr martin hagger , university of nottingham he said these need to be part of a coordinated approach to change behaviour , but he advises those wanting to quit smoking to do it in a group .
" if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity and you are more likely to go along with what is expected in the group .
" it 's not so important in the early stages of giving up smoking but if the social network is consistent in supporting the attempt to quit then it is much more likely a person will not relapse back , " he added .
the study , funded by the us national institute on aging , based the research on a community based study of 12,067 people between 1971 and 2003 .
the group ranged in age from 21 to 70 and people smoking one or more cigarettes a day were deemed smokers .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also why smokers struggle to give up 04 apr 05 -pipe- health genetic link to smoking addiction 02 apr 08 -pipe- health clinics help smokers quit tobacco 20 feb 08 -pipe- suffolk related bbc links bbc health - tips to give up smoking related internet links the new england journal of medicine national institute on aging department of health the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened hiv home screening kit launched lack of sleep ' poses death risk ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' many drown ' in australia sinking beauty sleep concept ' not a myth ' french king 's lost head ' genuine ' casino robbed of $ 1.5m in chips brain clue to fighter pilot skill diamonds goalkeeper roberts dies how life survived snowball earth ghana due to pump its first oil kosovo pm organ trafficking link riots as berlusconi survives vote most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened asylum boat sinking ' drowns dozens ' las vegas casino robber 's luck runs out ' bodies retrieved ' in australia sinking one-minute world news one-minute world news fog blamed for 137-vehicle pile-up fake faberge eggs seized in paris petrol bomber runs into lamppost riots as berlusconi survives vote kosovo : did atrocities continue ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 68,857 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- smokers tend to give up in groups british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 07:46 gmt , thursday , 22 may 2008 08:46 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version smokers tend to give up in groups u.s. researchers studied changes in smoking habits over three decades giving up smoking is contagious - people are more likely to quit in groups than alone , a study suggests .
the research reveals one person 's decision to stop smoking often spreads through friends , family and work mates , leading them to quit as well .
the closer the relationship , the greater the influence on the person giving up .
the u.s research , in the new england journal of medicine , looked at the habits of more than 12,000 people .
we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once nicholas christakis , author of the report studying changes over a 30 year period , the researchers found social relationships had a crucial role in deciding whether someone started smoking - and then whether they quit .
the report also claimed that smoking was changing the nature of society .
where once smokers and non-smokers mixed freely , it said the two groups now tended to form " separate clusters " , and suggested smokers were being pushed to the margins of society .
" we 've found that when you analyse large social networks , entire pockets of people who might not know each other all quit smoking at once , " said researcher professor nicholas christakis , based at the harvard medical school .
" so if there 's a change in the zeitgeist of this social network , like a cultural shift , a whole group of people who are connected but who might not know each other all quit together . "
other factors professor christakis said geography did not appear to play a role because smoking behaviours spread between contacts living miles apart and separate households .
" rather , the closeness of the relationship in the network was key to the spread of smoking behaviours , " he said .
for instance when a husband or wife quit , it decreased the chance of their spouse smoking by 67 % .
when a sibling quit , it reduced the chance of smoking by 25 % among their brothers and sisters .
a friend quitting decreased the chance of smoking by 36 % among their friends .
have your say i stopped smoking after 40 years by saying ' that 's the end of that ' - it 's not rocket science .
doug , nottingham send us your comments education was also a factor .
the higher the educational levels among the contacts , the greater the influence on smoking behaviour .
professor christakis said : " we are more influenced by the quitting behaviour of others if those people are highly educated .
" to add a further twist , we are also more influenced by others if we ourselves are more educated . "
empathy dr martin hagger , a health psychologist from the university of nottingham said social support is a key factor in giving up smoking .
" people like to be in the same boat .
people like to empathise with each other .
it happens with other health behaviours such as getting fit - support from people close to you really helps . "
dr hagger said government initiatives such as putting tax on cigarettes or banning smoking in public places can only go so far .
if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity dr martin hagger , university of nottingham he said these need to be part of a coordinated approach to change behaviour , but he advises those wanting to quit smoking to do it in a group .
" if you are trying to give up do n't keep it a secret , try and recruit people from your own social network .
it gives you a sense of group identity and you are more likely to go along with what is expected in the group .
" it 's not so important in the early stages of giving up smoking but if the social network is consistent in supporting the attempt to quit then it is much more likely a person will not relapse back , " he added .
the study , funded by the us national institute on aging , based the research on a community based study of 12,067 people between 1971 and 2003 .
the group ranged in age from 21 to 70 and people smoking one or more cigarettes a day were deemed smokers .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
see also why smokers struggle to give up 04 apr 05 -pipe- health genetic link to smoking addiction 02 apr 08 -pipe- health clinics help smokers quit tobacco 20 feb 08 -pipe- suffolk related bbc links bbc health - tips to give up smoking related internet links the new england journal of medicine national institute on aging department of health the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories world cup sponsors ' unhealthy ' namibians sue over sterilisation hopes for breast cancer vaccine most popular stories now shared read watched / listened e-mail error ends up on road sign us sculptor louise bourgeois dies ' noise pollution ' threatens fish mars starts using animal products smart homes offer a helping hand most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened doubt cast on israel raid account ex-us vp al gore splits from wife why did german president resign ?
judges shot dead at china court duchess ' drinking ' in paper sting senior al-qaeda leader ' killed ' del toro ' takes leave ' of hobbit cage-fighter jailed for £ 53m raid e-mail error ends up on road sign homer named greatest tv character most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened israel releases ' footage of flotilla raid ' pakistan lake threatens to burst storm plagues obama 's memorial speech israeli navy storms gaza aid ship african football shorts : the sex worker one-minute world news israeli raid sparks global anger turkey calls israel a ' terrorist ' israeli army releases ' flotilla footage ' eurovision highlights from oslo most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis horst , why ?
german president 's shock resignation a blow to merkel gomp / arts the woman who brought giant spiders to london day in pictures a selection of pictures from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 123,771 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
